# 2401.04364v4

SoK: Systematization and Benchmarking of Deepfake Detectors
in a Unified Framework
Binh M. Le Jiwon Kim Simon S. Woo*
Sungkyunkwan University, S. Korea Sungkyunkwan University, S. Korea Sungkyunkwan University, S. Korea
bmle@g.skku.edu merwl0@g.skku.edu swoo@g.skku.edu
Kristen Moore Alsharif Abuadbba Shahroz Tariq
CSIRO’s Data61, Australia CSIRO’s Data61, Australia CSIRO’s Data61, Australia
kristen.moore@data61.csiro.au sharif.abuadbba@data61.csiro.au shahroz.tariq@data61.csiro.au
Abstract—Deepfakes have rapidly emerged as a serious need is further emphasized by the limitations of current
threat to society due to their ease of creation and dissemi- training datasets, which can leave detectors vulnerable to
nation, triggering the accelerated development of detection performance degradation against unseen deepfake vari-
technologies. However, many existing detectors rely on lab- ants, potentially resulting in performance worse than a
generated datasets for validation, which may not prepare random guess [63], [90].
themfornovel,real-worlddeepfakes.Thispaperextensively While some recent studies have asserted the robust
reviews and analyzes state-of-the-art deepfake detectors, generalizability of their model against various types of
evaluatingthemagainstseveralcriticalcriteria.Thesecrite- deepfakes[45],[103],theirworkhaspredominantlyrelied
riacategorizedetectorsinto4high-levelgroupsand13fine- on standard academic datasets [99], [128]. This narrow
grainedsub-groups,alignedwithaunifiedconceptualframe- focus has resulted in a limited understanding of deep-
workwepropose.Thisclassificationofferspracticalinsights fake detectors, generation tools, and datasets, particularly
into the factors affecting detector efficacy. We evaluate the regarding their real-world functionalities, characteristics,
generalizabilityof16leadingdetectorsacrosscomprehensive and performance. Consequently, there is a significant gap
attack scenarios, including black-box, white-box, and gray- betweenthereportedefficacyofdetectorsandtheiractual
performance, highlighting the critical need for compre-
box settings. Our systematized analysis and experiments
hensive and systematic evaluations against a broad spec-
provide a deeper understanding of deepfake detectors and
trum of deepfake tools and real-world scenarios. Previ-
their generalizability, paving the way for future research
ous efforts to systematically categorize generation and
and the development of more proactive defenses against
detectionmethodshavenot providedcomprehensivethor-
deepfakes.
ough evaluations [83], [102] or detailed classification of
Index Terms—deepfakes deepfake creation tools and advanced detectors [127].
By conducting extensive, systematic evaluations against
1. Introduction a diverse range of deepfake generation methods and real-
world examples, this study seeks to close the knowledge
The widespread use of deep learning to create deep- gapregardingtheefficacyofdeepfakedetectors,tools,and
fakes has raised significant concerns due to its misuse datasets. To the best of our knowledge, this study marks
in the generation of malicious content and their indis- the first comprehensive endeavor to systematically scruti-
tinguishability from authentic content [37], [69], [112]. nize the existing body of research on deepfake detection,
The easy access to user-friendly, open-source deepfake aiming to address three pivotal research questions:
tools [16], [35], [104] further compounds the issue, pos-
ing serious cybersecurity and societal threats, such as its RQ1: WHATFACTORSINFLUENCEFACIALDEEPFAKEDETECTION?
RQ2: HOWWELLDOLEADINGDETECTORSGENERALIZEINPER-
impacts on Facial Liveness Verification (FLV) systems
FORMANCE?
[69]. As a consequence, researchers are actively working RQ3: HOWDOIDENTIFIEDFACTORSIMPACTDETECTORSGENER-
to enhance deepfake detection methods and strengthen ALIZABILITY?
existing detection systems [2], [39], [64] through various
ToaddressRQ1,weconductedasystematicreviewof
analytical approaches, including spatial [64], [86], [115],
theliteraturefrom2019to2023,selecting51topdeepfake
frequency [65], [92], [106], and temporal [125] analyses,
detectors. Our analysis identified 18 key factors that are
as well as identifying underlying artifacts or fingerprints
critical to the construction of deepfake detectors, with
[111]. However, the diversity and sophistication of deep-
thosefactorsspanningdeepfaketypes,artifacttypes,input
fake attacks necessitate the development of detectors that
data representation methods, network architectures, and
arerobustagainstnovelmanipulationssuchasnoise[45],
training and evaluation styles. We developed a conceptual
[52], compression [64], [65], and most critically, to iden-
framework for categorizing detectors by these factors,
tify unseen deepfakes in the wild [90], [103], [131]. This
therebyenhancingourunderstandingandsystematiceval-
*Correspondingauthor. uation of deepfake detection nuances. To tackle RQ2, we
5202
raM
2
]VC.sc[
4v46340.1042:viXra

|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | • Categorization |          |            | and analysis   |            | of leading     | detectors:   |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------------- | -------- | ---------- | -------------- | ---------- | -------------- | ------------ |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | We curate        | a list   | of 51      | top detectors, |            | and categorize | them         |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | using our        | proposed | framework  |                | (Sec.      | 3.4).          |              |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | • Evaluation     |          | framework: |                | We develop | a              | rigorous de- |
tectorevaluationframeworkthatincludesblack-box,gray-
box,andwhite-boxmodelevaluationsettings,andcreatea
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | novel white-box |     | deepfake   | dataset. | With  | these  | we perform  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------------- | --- | ---------- | -------- | ----- | ------ | ----------- |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | a comprehensive |     | assessment |          | of 16 | of the | most recent |
Figure1.Publicationsperyearfordeepfake-relatedkeywords. SoTAdetectors’performance,addressingRQ2(Sec.4and
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | 5.1). Our   | evaluation | code       | is provided |        | here.         |        |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- | ---------- | ---------- | ----------- | ------ | ------------- | ------ |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | • Insights: |            | We explore | the         | impact | of identified | influ- |
introduced a rigorous evaluation framework to asses the ential factors on the generalizability of detectors, directly
| generalizability |            | of leading | detectors |               | through | a security |            | RQ3 |             |       |         |           |          |
| ---------------- | ---------- | ---------- | --------- | ------------- | ------- | ---------- | ---------- | --- | ----------- | ----- | ------- | --------- | -------- |
|                  |            |            |           |               |         |            | addressing |     | (Sec.       | 5.2). |         |           |          |
| lens using       | black-box, |            | gray-box, | and white-box |         | evaluation |            |     |             |       |         |           |          |
|                  |            |            |           |               |         |            | • Future   |     | Directions: | We    | use our | framework | to iden- |
settings. To facilitate this evaluation, we created the first tify significant challenges facing current deepfake detec-
ever “white-box” deepfake dataset through a controlled tion systems, as well as future pathways for enhancing
process where key aspects like the deepfake generation deepfake detection (Sec. 7).
| tool, source | and      | destination   | videos      | are      | stabilized. | This       |               |     |     |         |     |      |     |
| ------------ | -------- | ------------- | ----------- | -------- | ----------- | ---------- | ------------- | --- | --- | ------- | --- | ---- | --- |
| framework    | allowed  | us            | to evaluate | 16       | SoTA        | detectors, |               |     |     |         |     |      |     |
|              |          |               |             |          |             |            | 2. Background |     | and | Related |     | Work |     |
| assessing    | their    | adaptability  | to          | various  | deepfake    | scenar-    |               |     |     |         |     |      |     |
| ios. Our     | proposed | comprehensive |             | approach |             | provided a |               |     |     |         |     |      |     |
nuanced understanding of detectors, directly addressing Deepfake Generation. The advent of Generative Ad-
RQ3 by examining the influence of identified influential versarialNetworks(GANs)byGoodfellowetal.[40],has
factors on the generalizability of detectors. advanced realistic image synthesis, especially for human
Thisstudyrespondstotheincreaseindeepfake-related faces [13], [54]. GANs use a generator (G) and a dis-
publicationsbyconsolidatingandsystematizingtheexten- criminator(D),trainingthemadversarially.AutoEncoders
(AE),initiallyproposedbyLeCunetal.[66]andlaterre-
sivebodyofexistingresearchintoacomprehensiveanaly-
sis, as illustrated in Fig. 1 and detailed in Table 1. While fined as variational auto-encoders (VAEs) [62], compress
numerous studies have explored deepfake detection and dataforalteringfacefeaturesindeepfaketechnology.The
generation as shown in Fig. 1, a critical gap exists in re- rise of deepfakes has spurred academic efforts like the
|             |                |     |            |     |          |           | Deepfake | Detection | Challenge |     | (DFDC) | [27], | FaceForen- |
| ----------- | -------------- | --- | ---------- | --- | -------- | --------- | -------- | --------- | --------- | --- | ------ | ----- | ---------- |
| search that | systematically |     | summarizes |     | deepfake | detectors |          |           |           |     |        |       |            |
undervariousinfluentialfactorsandassessestheirimpact sics++(FF++)[99],CelebrityDeepfake(CelebDF)[128],
onwell-knowndetectorsusingdiverseprotocolsettings.In and Audio-Video Deepfake (FakeAVCeleb) [55], [56].
Table1,wecategorizeandsummarizepriorsurveystudies Thesedeepfakesaregenerallycategorizedintofaceswaps,
reenactments,andsynthesis.Forthereader’sconvenience,
acrossvariouscriteria.TheinitialworkbyVerdoliva[120]
focused primarily on deepfake detection but was too brief wedenotethetermsreference(sourceordriver)andtarget
to provide in-depth insights into deepfake detectors and (destinationorvictim)identitiesasRandT,respectively.
lacked detailed information on up-to-date detection meth- V signifies the reference video (perhaps sourced from
R
ods. Later, more thorough studies [53], [83], [102], [119] the Internet), while V refers to images or videos of the
T
provided comprehensive summaries covering various as- targetedindividual.ThedeepfakesmadefromV R andV T
pects of deepfake applications, threats, generation, and are symbolized by V .
D
detection.Recentevaluationstudies[25],[57],[127]have Faceswap.Faceswapmethods,suchasFaceSwap[35],
garnered more attention, yet they still lacked diversity in DeepFakes[20],Faceshifter[71],andFSGAN[89],merge
evaluation protocols, only considering gray-box settings. facial features from a target face (V T ) into a recipi-
Tothebestofourknowledge,wearethefirsttopresenta ent video (V ), creating a new video (V ) where the
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | R   |     |     | D   |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
thorough overview of the varying and dynamic deepfake target’s face replaces the recipient’s, while maintaining
detection landscape and to comprehensively evaluate it. the original body and background. A notable example is
Our paper distinguishes itself from previous surveys with superimposingacelebrity’sface,likeScarlettJohansson’s
the following unique features. (1) Timeliness, where we (T), onto another person in a video (V ) [31], achieved
R
collect and analyze the latest SoTA deepfake detectors. usingtoolslikeDeepFaceLab[16],Dfaker[26],andSim-
| (2) Detail, | offering | an  | analysis | through | an  | end-to-end | Swap [9]. |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ----------- | -------- | --- | -------- | ------- | --- | ---------- | --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
conceptual framework and identifying influential factors; Reenactment.ThereenactmentprocesscombinesV T ’s
and (3) Depth of Evaluation, covering diverse settings: facial features with V ’s expressions and movements to
R
white-box, gray-box, and black-box, and providing more createV ,usingtechniqueslikeTalkingHead(TH)[123],
D
insightsintodetectorperformancesthroughthelensofour First-OrderMotionModel(FOM)[104],Face2Face[118],
framework. and Neural Textures [117]. This method has animated
The primary contributions of our paper and their cor- public figures, such as in altered speeches of Donald
responding sections are as follows: Trump [82] and Richard Nixon [84].
• Conceptual framework and influential factors: Synthesis. Synthesis deepfakes vary in method, with
We systematically review the recent literature, and intro- Diffusion or GAN recently surpassing facial blends in
duce a conceptual framework for categorizing deepfake popularity. Focused on image synthesis (I), these tech-
detectors based on 18 key factors essential to deepfake niques blend identities, such as R1 and R2, to create a
|     |     |     | RQ1 |     |     |     |     | I   |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
detection identified in (Sec. 3.1, 3.2, and 3.3). new image D . For instance, Diffusion can blend Donald

Table1.ADETAILEDCOMPARISONOFCONTRIBUTIONSBETWEENOURSOKSTUDIESANDRELEVANTSURVEYS.†INDICATESTHATTHE
STUDIESDONOTCONDUCTEXPERIMENTSBYTHEMSELVESBUTSOLELYREPORTNUMBERS.
YearsCovered Conceptual Detectors TheirOwn EvaluationDataset (Cross)EvaluationStrategy
Priorsurveys Year Notes
(Detectors) Framework Analysis Evaluation Same Cross Gray-box White-box Black-box
Verdoliva[120] 2020 2005−2020 ✗ Brief ✗ ✓† ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ Summarization
Tolosanaetal.[119] 2020 2018−2020 ✗ Thorough ✗ ✓† ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ Summarization
MirskyandLee[83] 2021 2017−2020 ✗ Thorough ✗ ✓† ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ Summarization
Juefei-Xuetal.[53] 2022 2016−2021 ✗ Thorough ✗ ✓† ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ Summarization
Ranaetal.[93] 2022 2018−2020 ✗ Brief ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ SummarizationofDetectors
Nguyenetal.[87] 2022 2018−2021 ✗ Brief ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ Summarization
Maliketal.[79] 2022 2018−2021 ✗ Brief ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ Summarization
Seowetal.[102] 2022 2018−2021 ✗ Thorough ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ Summarization
Naitalietal.[85] 2023 2022−2023 ✗ Brief ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ Summarization
Yanetal.[127] 2023 2018−2023 ✗ Brief ✓(15) ✓ ✓ ✓ ✗ ✗ EvaluationofPublishedDetectors
Khan&Nguyen[57] 2023 - ✗ Brief ✓(8) ✓ ✓ ✓ ✗ ✗ EvaluationofGeneralNNModels
Ours 2023 2019−2023 ✓ Thorough ✓(16) ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Summarization&Evaluationof
PublishedDetectors
Trump (I1) and Joe Biden (I2) to create a synthesized not propose a detector. Additionally, to ensure credibility,
R R
identity [1]. we exclude papers without a rigorous peer review, select-
Deepfake Detection. Image forgery detection, espe- ing only those published in CORE A* venues, except for
cially concerning deepfakes with human faces, is exten- somewidelycitedworks,significantlyreducingthepool1.
sively studied [132]. Methods can be broadly categorized Twoauthorsindependentlyreviewedtheremainingpapers
into supervised [58]–[60], [67], [68], [99], [113]–[116], and found that the majority works did not propose new
[131] and self-supervised approaches [29], [103]. Self- detectors.
supervisedmethodsleveragelargefacialdatasetstoreduce This process yielded 51 relevant papers. Note that
biasbutrequirehypothesizingartifactpatterns.Supervised manyindustry-developeddetectors,likeIntelFakeCatcher
methodsusedeeplearningtodiscernrealfromfake,often [51], remain proprietary and closed-source, making them
with varied input modalities [6], [11], [48], [72], [92], impractical to categorize or analyze within our frame-
[99], [115], [125]. Techniques target specific artifacts like works. Next, we conducted a preliminary analysis of the
mouth movements or gradients. Various detector cate- 51deepfakedetectors.Thisanalysisservesasthefounda-
gories exist, employing different architectures [3], [14], tionforconsolidatingthedeepfakedetectionpipelineinto
[29], [39], [65], [122], [133]. However, a systematic eval- a conceptual framework, presented in the next section.
uation of recent methods with unified criteria is lacking.
3.2. Preliminary Analysis of Detectors
3. Systematization of Deepfake Detectors
Thissectionpresentsouranalysismethodologyforthe
Thissectionoutlinesourapproachtoselectandassess
51 selected deepfake detectors, focusing initially on their
deepfakedetectors,targetingRQ1(Whatfactorsinfluence
primary detection targets—predominantly faceswap and
facial deepfake detection?) Utilizing insights from 51
reenactment deepfakes, with a minority (5 detectors) tar-
deepfake studies, we developed a Conceptual Framework
geting synthetic image synthesis [76], [92], [110], [111],
to categorize key concepts and relationships. Following
[122].
rigorous selection criteria outlined in Sec. 3.1, we con-
Moving on to artifact and pattern analysis, we ob-
ducted a detailed review in Sec. 3.2, focusing on aspects
served that most detectors concentrate on spatial features
like dataset use, methodology, pre-processing, model ar-
independently, in conjunction with temporal or frequency
chitecture,andevaluationstandards.Thisreviewinformed
domainfeatures.Exceptionsincludetwoapproaches[76],
the creation of our conceptual framework (Sec. 3.3), or-
[92],whereeachexclusivelyfocusesonthefrequencydo-
ganizing detectors into 4 major groups and 13 detailed
main,andthreemethods[38],[39],[122],whichconsider
sub-groups (Sec. 3.4). This stage allows us to evaluate
special artifacts such as Voice Sync and Noise Traces.
the most representative, open-source detectors from each
Our review of preprocessing techniques highlighted a
group with standardized metrics (Sec. 4), followed by
variety of image processing, data augmentation, and face
influential factor assessment on those detectors (Sec. 5).
extraction methods, with detectors almost evenly split be-
tween single-frame and multi-frame data representations.
3.1. Paper Selection Criteria
Exploring model architectures, we observed a domi-
nance of deep neural networks, including ConvNets such
First,wedescribeourpapercollectionprocess,includ-
as VGG [105] and ResNet [46], sequence models like
ing the inclusion and exclusion criteria.
BiLSTM[101]andVisionTransformer[30],inadditionto
Paper Collection Process. We focused on recent de-
specialized networks such as graph learning [124] or cap-
velopments in deepfake detection in the last five years
sule networks [86]. These DNNs were deployed in stan-
from 2019 to 2023, a period marked by significant
dalone configurations or in combination with each other,
growth in the field following the introduction of the
employing various learning strategies such as knowledge
FaceForensics++ benchmark [99]. Utilizing the Google
distillation [47], Siamese networks [4]. This investigation
Scholar search query ‘‘deepfake detection’’ for
this timeframe period, we identified 4,220 relevant publi-
1.Note:Weincludetwonotableexceptionstoourselectioncriteria:
cations.
Capsule Forensics [86] due to its high citation count 550+ and MCX-
InclusionandExclusionCriteria.Weexcludepapers
API[126]duetoitssignificantopensourcecontributionsandpretrained
not specifically related to deepfake detection and that do weights.

informed our understanding of architectural choices and DataAugmentationplaysthepivotalroleofsynthesiz-
artifact targeting across detectors. ingtrainingdata,employingtechniquessuchasSuspicious
Ourinvestigationofvalidationmethodologiesrevealed ForgeriesErasing[121],Self-BlendedImages(SBI)[103],
two main approaches: intra-dataset testing and cross- as well as Temporal Repeat and Dropout [125]. Collec-
dataset testing to assess generalizability. Studies also tively, these methods strengthen the detector’s ability to
adopted various evaluation metrics. This analytical en- identify subtle anomalies indicative of deepfakes.
deavor yielded two key outcomes: (i) it elucidates the Image Preprocessing techniques collectively con-
typical procedural steps followed by deepfake detectors, tribute to the effective preparation and transformation of
and (ii) it delineates the specific activities encompassed datasets,includingmethodssuchas3DDenseFaceAlign-
within these steps. This information serves as the founda- ment(3DDFA)[134]toenableaccuratefeatureextraction,
tionforconsolidatingtheentireprocessintoaConceptual and others such as Face Alignment [5] and RetinaFace
Framework. with 4 key points [23] to ensure the standardization of
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | facial | features | across | images. |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------ | -------- | ------ | ------- | --- | --- | --- |
3.3. Conceptual Framework Face Extraction techniques involve accurately identi-
fyingandisolatinghumanfacesinavideoorimage,using
Our review of the 51 selected papers on deepfake popular tools such as Dlib [61] and MTCNN [130].
|           |          |     |        |           |          |         | 4 Model&Training. |     |     | Thefourthstepinourframework |     |     |     |
| --------- | -------- | --- | ------ | --------- | -------- | ------- | ----------------- | --- | --- | --------------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
| detection | revealed | a   | common | five-step | pipeline | central |                   |     |     |                             |     |     |     |
to developing detection methods. This process forms the encompasses different choices of model architectures and
basisofourConceptualFramework(CF),showninFig.2, training strategies commonly employed for deepfake de-
featuring 18 Influential Factors (IF) (illustrated by text tection. Our framework classifies the structure of the
|           |      |                |     |            |     |             | model | into three | broad | categories | of  | IFs: | Convolu- |
| --------- | ---- | -------------- | --- | ---------- | --- | ----------- | ----- | ---------- | ----- | ---------- | --- | ---- | -------- |
| text text | text | text capsules) |     | identified | for | RQ1. Our CF |       |            |       |            |     |      | 4A       |
components are described as follows, with 13 detailed tional Models, 4B Sequence Models, and 4C Specialized
| sub-groups | provided |     | in Sec. | 3.4. |     |     | Network. |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---------- | -------- | --- | ------- | ---- | --- | --- | -------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
1 Deeepfake Type. The first step of our framework Convolutional Models leverage common Convolu-
involvesidentifyingthespecifictype(s)offacialdeepfake tionalNeuralNetworks(ConvNets)suchasResNet,VGG,
attacks that the detector will target. Fig. 2 outlines the or XceptionNet, which discern authentic images from
three categories of deepfakes considered in our frame- manipulatedonesbyidentifyingsubtleinconsistenciesand
work,namely Synthesis, Faceswap,and Reen- anomalies in pixel patterns and textures.
|     | 1A  |     | 1B  |     |     | 1C  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
actment, which were mentioned in Sec. 2. Recent litera- Sequence Models use Recurrent Neural Network
ture on deepfake detectors primarily focus on faceswap (RNN) or Transformer-based model architectures, like
and reenactment, as evidenced by [83], [81]. BiLSTM,VisionTransformer,orTransformerEncoder,to
2 Detection Methodology. The second step involves analyzesequentialinconsistencies.Spatiotemporalmodels
detailing the detection methodology employed by detec- track the continuity and flow of video frames to identify
|             |               |     |     |            |     |                 | deepfakes. | Alternatively, |     | spatial | detectors | divide | a single |
| ----------- | ------------- | --- | --- | ---------- | --- | --------------- | ---------- | -------------- | --- | ------- | --------- | ------ | -------- |
| tors. These | methodologies |     | can | be broadly |     | classified into |            |                |     |         |           |        |          |
four main categories: 2A Spatial artifact, 2B Temporal frame into multiple patches and input these as a sequence
| artifact, | 2C Frequency |     | artifact, | and | 2D Special | artifact- | to the | detector. |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------- | ------------ | --- | --------- | --- | ---------- | --------- | ------ | --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
baseddetectors,eachfocusingonspecificaspectsofdeep- Specialized Networks models differ from the convolu-
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | tional | models | category | by integrating |     | novel | architectures |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------ | ------ | -------- | -------------- | --- | ----- | ------------- |
fake identification.
Spatialartifact-baseddetectorsanalyzeindividualim- such as U-Net [98] or Capsule Network [100], to cap-
agesorvideoframesforintra-framevisualanomalieslike ture more nuanced deepfake indicators. Finally, Step 4
irregularities in texture, color, lighting, misalignments, or also includes 4D Learning Strategies for training, such
|              |          |     |         |           |          |        | as meta-learning |     | [8], | Graph Information |     | Interaction | lay- |
| ------------ | -------- | --- | ------- | --------- | -------- | ------ | ---------------- | --- | ---- | ----------------- | --- | ----------- | ---- |
| inconsistent | blending |     | between | different | segments | of the |                  |     |      |                   |     |             |      |
image. Temporal artifact detectors aim to identify inter- ers [124], Dual Cross-Modal Attention [78], and Siamese
| frame inconsistencies |     |     | across | multiple | video | frames over | learning | [3].              |     |           |     |       |             |
| --------------------- | --- | --- | ------ | -------- | ----- | ----------- | -------- | ----------------- | --- | --------- | --- | ----- | ----------- |
| time.                 |     |     |        |          |       |             | 5        | Model Validation. |     | Our fifth | and | final | step of the |
On the other hand, frequency artifact-based detectors framework addresses the critical task of validating pre-
operate in the frequency domain. Deepfake manipulation trained detectors. Based on our literature study, this vali-
oftenalterspixelvaluechangerates,creatingadistinctive dationprocesscanbebroadlycategorizedintotwodistinct
frequency ‘signature’ that affects the image’s spectral approaches: the 5A same dataset and 5B cross dataset
| characteristics, |     | serving | as discriminative |     | cues | for these | validation. |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---------------- | --- | ------- | ----------------- | --- | ---- | --------- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Samedatasetvalidationinvolvesassessingthemodel’s
detectors.
Additionally, special artifacts focus on identifying performance on the test set of the same dataset(s) as the
unique manipulation signatures characteristic of deepfake training data (e.g., both training and test sets taken from
| generation | methods. | Examples |     | include | models | detecting | FF++). |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---------- | -------- | -------- | --- | ------- | ------ | --------- | ------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Crossdataset,incontrast,involvestestingthedetector
| anomalies | in synchronization |     |     | features, | such | as audio- |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------- | ------------------ | --- | --- | --------- | ---- | --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
visual alignment between lip movement and voice [39]. onadatasetdifferentfromtheonefromwhichthetraining
3 Data & Preprocessing. Our framework’s third step datasetwastaken(e.g.,trainingdatatakenfromFF++and
focuses on the preparation and transformation of in- test data from CelebDF). This evaluation method is vital
|           |           |               |               |     |       |             | for assessing |     | the model’s | generalizability |     | and | robustness. |
| --------- | --------- | ------------- | ------------- | --- | ----- | ----------- | ------------- | --- | ----------- | ---------------- | --- | --- | ----------- |
| put data. | We divide | data          | preprocessing |     | into  | three main  |               |     |             |                  |     |     |             |
| areas:    | 3A Data   | Augmentation, |               | 3B  | Image | Processing, |               |     |             |                  |     |     |             |
and 3C Face Extraction. Additionally, we classify its 3.4. Detector Taxonomy
| representation |     | into two | categories: |     | Single-frame | and |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | -------- | ----------- | --- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
3D
| Multi-frame. |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |               |     |                   |     |            | 51  |
| ------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------- | --- | ----------------- | --- | ---------- | --- |
| 3E           |     |     |     |     |     |     | In  | this section, |     | we systematically |     | categorize | the |

1 2 3 4 5
Deepfake Detection Data & Model & Model
Type Methodology Preprocessing Training Validation
Data Image Convolutional Sequence
Synthesis Faceswap Spatial Temporal Augmentation Processing Models Models Same Cross
Special Face Single Specialised Learning Dataset Dataset
Reenactment Frequency Artifacts Extraction Frame Networks Strategies
Multiple
Frames
Figure 2. Our Five-Step Conceptual Framework: All detection methods adhere to this framework: Step #1 (Deepfake Type), #2 (Detection
Methodology),#3(Data&Preprocessing),#4(Model&Training),and#5(ModelValidation).Fromtheseprimarystages,weidentify18Influential
Factors(illustratedascoloredcapsules)detailedinSec.3.3.
detectorsidentifiedthroughourselectionprocessoutlined Observation 2: Focus on AOI. All detectors in this
in Section 3.1. We map each detector into a unified groupusesomemethodoffaceextractiononvideoframes
taxonomy based on our Conceptual Framework (CF), as to make the detection model focus only on the area of
presented in Table 2. interest (AOI). Only 6 out of 51 detectors do not employ
Our analysis in Section 3.2 revealed that Step #2 face extraction, highlighting the importance of IF 3C.
and Step #4 of CF are particularly significant in de- Observation3:Generalizabilityclaimsagainstmajor-
termining the nature and type of the detector, as they ity deepfakes. All 21 detectors in this group claim the
dictate the model architecture choices and the targeted capability to detect both faceswap (IF 1B) and reen-
artifact, collectively termed as ‘Focus of Methodology’. actment (IF 1C) deepfakes. For instance, 19 out of 21
Consequently, we group the detectors by identifying their detectors claim this on the same dataset evaluation (5A),
commonalities in these 2 steps of the conceptual frame- and 17 out of 21 detectors claim this for cross dataset
work. evaluation(5B).Therefore,claiminggeneralizabilityover
We observe that utilizing IFs in Detector Methodol- two primary categories of deepfakes.
ogy (i.e., text in Step #2 of CF) naturally categorizes
The spatial artifact models are sub-grouped into 5
the 51 detectors into 4 high-level groups (see column 1
distinct CF representations based primarily on their dif-
under ‘Focus of Methodology’ in Table 2). Subsequently,
ferences in Step #4 (Model & Training).
we identify subgroups within each of these 4 high-level
CF #1 contains purely ConvNets (IF 4A) that do
groups using the influential factors in Model & Training
not utilize sequence models or any additional specialized
(i.e., text in Step #4 in CF). This yields a total of 13
networks or learning strategies. Detectors characteristics
distinct CF sub-groups across these 4 high-level groups
in CF #1 include such techniques that increase the per-
(see column 2 under ‘Focus of Methodology’ in Table 2).
formanceofConvNetmodelswhilefocusingonthespatial
We visually represent each of the 13 CF groups using
data, for instance, the use of multiple color spaces [126],
color-coded nodes (i.e., capsule shapes) in Table 2 under
consistency loss [88], capsule network [86], and depth-
‘Conceptual Framework Representation’ column. A fully
wise convolutions [99].
colored node indicates that every paper in the framework
CF #2 takes a different direction than CF #1 by
belongstothespecifiedcategory.Incontrast,awhitenode
focusing on specialized network (IF 4C) architectures.
means that none of the papers in that framework fit the
For instance, these methods focus more on architecture
category. A half-colored node signifies a mixed scenario:
choicesliketheuseofsiamesetraining[3],multi-attention
some papers in the framework belong to the category,
losses [131], and intra-instance consistency loss [109],
while others do not. Overall, these 13 CF representations
demonstratingthatthesesuccessful techniques fromother
depict various clusters of detector methodology and eval-
domains are equally applicable in deepfake detection.
uationfoundinleadingresearchpublicationssince2019.
CFs #3 and #4, similar to CF #1, rely on ConvNet
Additionally, our review identified key features of
models. However, CF #3 incorporates additional special
each detector’s architecture, detailed in Table 2’s third
column,alongsidethe13CFgroups,offeringanoverview
learning strategies (IF 4D), such as adversarial learn-
ing [7] and meta-learning [8], to improve the model’s
of deepfake detection trends to be further explored in
learning capabilities in an effort to enhance the deepfake
subsequent sections.
detection performance. In contrast, CF #4 integrates spe-
3.4.1. Group 1: Spatial Artifact. There are 21 detectors cialized networks (IF 4D) with ConvNets to benefit from
in this group. There are three important observations to techniques like collaborative learning [64] which provide
highlight about the whole group. (video) quality agnostic detection performance on both
Observation1:Lackingcapabilitytodetectinterframe raw and compressed deepfakes.
inconsistencies. All detectors in this group focus only on CF #5 is unique as it relies on purely sequential
the spatial data. This also means that all approaches in models (IF 4B). Sequential models are mainly used for
thisgrouparesingleframe(i.e.IF 3D)models.Therefore, temporal or spatiotemporal data. Therefore, the spatial
noneofthesemethodsareequippedtofindtemporaldeep- dataneedstobetransformedintoasequence,achievedby
fakeartifactsthatarisefromtheinterframeinconsistencies slicing each video frame into smaller chunks and feeding
in deepfake videos. them sequentially to the model. This setting is unique

Table2.SYSTEMATICCLASSIFICATIONOFDEEPFAKEDETECTORS.INCONCEPTUALFRAMEWORKREPRESENTATIONS,WHITENODES
INDICATENOPAPERSFITTINGTHECATEGORY,HALF-COLOREDNODESREPRESENTPARTIALCATEGORYREPRESENTATION,ANDFULLY
COLOREDNODESSIGNIFYCOMPLETEREPRESENTATIONWITHINTHECATEGORY(SEESUPP.TABLE6FORDETAILSONDETECTORS).THE
”FF++SCORE”COLUMNDISPLAYSEACHDETECTOR’SPERFORMANCEONTHEFF++DATASET.DETECTORSMARKEDWITH†WERESELECTED
FORFURTHEREVALUATIONSINSEC.4.
F O C U S O F D I S T IN C T T E C H N I Q U E O F CONC E P T U A L F R A M EW ORK DE T E CT OR F F + +
| ME  |     | D A | R   | VENUE | YEAR | N   | S   |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | ----- | ---- | --- | --- |
T H O D O LO GY E T E C T O R R C H I T E C TU R E E P R E S E N TA T IO N A M E C O R E
|     |     | CapsuleNetwork |     |     | '19 Cap.Forensics†[86] |     | 96.60(AUC) |
| --- | --- | -------------- | --- | --- | ---------------------- | --- | ---------- |
ICASSP
|              |     | DepthwiseConvolutions |     | ICCV | '19 XceptionNet†[99] |     | 99.26(ACC) |
| ------------ | --- | --------------------- | --- | ---- | -------------------- | --- | ---------- |
|              |     | FaceX-rayClues        |     | CVPR | '20 FaceX-ray[72]    |     | 98.52(AUC) |
| CF#1.ConvNet |     | UnifiedMethodology    |     | CVPR | '20 FFD[107]         |     | -          |
Models
|     |     | BipartiteGraphs        |     | CVPR  | '22 RECCE[6]      |     | 99.32(AUC) |
| --- | --- | ---------------------- | --- | ----- | ----------------- | --- | ---------- |
|     |     | ConsistencyLoss        |     | CVPRW | '22 CORE[88]      |     | 99.94(AUC) |
|     |     | FaceImplicitIdentities |     | CVPR  | '23 IID[50]       |     | 99.32(AUC) |
|     |     | MultipleColorSpaces    |     | WACVW | '23 MCX-API†[126] |     | 99.68(AUC) |
STCAFITRALAITAPS
|       |             | SiameseTraining        |     | ICPR | '20 EffB4Att†[3] |     | 94.44(AUC) |
| ----- | ----------- | ---------------------- | --- | ---- | ---------------- | --- | ---------- |
|       |             | Intra-classCompactLoss |     | AAAI | '21 LTW[108]     |     | 99.17(AUC) |
| CF#2. | Specialized |                        |     |      |                  |     |            |
|       | Networks    | Multi-attentionlosses  |     | CVPR | '21 MAT†[131]    |     | 99.27(AUC) |
|       |             | Intra-instanceCL       |     |      | '22 DCL[109]     |     | 99.30(AUC) |
AAAI
|     |     | Self-blendImage |     | CVPR | '22 SBIs†[103] |     | 99.64(AUC) |
| --- | --- | --------------- | --- | ---- | -------------- | --- | ---------- |
CF#3. ConvNet AdversarialLearning ACMMM '21 MLAC[7] 88.29(AUC)
| ModelswithLearning |     | HighFrequencyPattern |     |     | '21 FRDM[78] |     | -   |
| ------------------ | --- | -------------------- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- | --- |
CVPR
| Strategies |     | Meta-learning |     | NEURIPS | '22 OST[8] |     | 98.20(AUC) |
| ---------- | --- | ------------- | --- | ------- | ---------- | --- | ---------- |
CF#4.ConvNetwith IdentityRepresentation CVPR '23 CADDM†[28] 99.70(AUC)
SpecializedNetworks CollaborativeLearning ICCV '23 QAD[64] 95.60(AUC)
|     |     | Facial&OtherInconsistency |     | CVPR | '22 ICT†[29] |     | 98.56(AUC) |
| --- | --- | ------------------------- | --- | ---- | ------------ | --- | ---------- |
CF#5.Sequence UnsupervisedInconsistency '22 UIA-ViT[136] 99.33(AUC)
|     | Models |                        |     | ECCV  |                    |     |            |
| --- | ------ | ---------------------- | --- | ----- | ------------------ | --- | ---------- |
|     |        | ActionUnits            |     | CVPR  | '23 AUNet[2]       |     | 99.89(AUC) |
|     |        | FacialAttentiveMask    |     | ACMMM | '20 ADDNet-3d[137] |     | 86.69(ACC) |
|     |        | AnomalyHeartbeatRhythm |     |       | '20 DeepRhythm[91] |     | 98.50(ACC) |
ACMMM
STCAFITRALAROPMETOITAPS Multi-instanceLearning ACMMM '20 S-IML-T[73] 98.39(ACC)
|              |        | TimeDiscrepancyModeling   |     |       | '21 TD-3DCNN[129] |     | 72.22(AUC) |
| ------------ | ------ | ------------------------- | --- | ----- | ----------------- | --- | ---------- |
| CF#6.ConvNet |        |                           |     | IJCAI |                   |     |            |
|              |        | Global-Localframelearning |     | IJCAI | '21 DIA[49]       |     | 98.80(AUC) |
|              | Models | LocalDynamicSync          |     | AAAI  | '22 DIL[42]       |     | 98.93(ACC) |
|              |        | FacesPredictiveLearning   |     | AAAI  | '22 FInfer[48]    |     | 95.67(AUC) |
|              |        | ContrastiveLearning       |     | ECCV  | '22 HCIL[43]      |     | 99.01(ACC) |
AlternateModulesFreezing CVPR '23 AltFreezing†[125] 98.60(AUC)
CF#7.ConvNetwith SpatioTemporalInconsistency ACMMM '21 STIL[41] 98.57(ACC)
SpecializedNetworks ReadingMouthMovements '21 LipForensics†[45] 97.10(AUC)
CVPR
&LearningStrategies TemporalTransformer ICCV '21 FTCN†[133] -
|               |        | CombineViTandCNN        |     |         | '21 CCViT†[14]   |     | 80.00(ACC) |
| ------------- | ------ | ----------------------- | --- | ------- | ---------------- | --- | ---------- |
| CF#8.Sequence |        |                         |     | ICIAP   |                  |     |            |
|               |        | Spatial-temporalModules |     | WWW     | '21 CLRNet†[115] |     | 99.35(F1)  |
|               | Models | UnsupervisedLearning    |     | NeurIPS | '22 LTTD[44]     |     | 97.72(AUC) |
|               |        | FrequencyLearning       |     | ECCV    | '20 F3-Net[92]   |     | 98.10(AUC) |
| CF#9.ConvNet  |        | Single-centerLoss       |     | CVPR    | '21 FDFL[70]     |     | 97.13(AUC) |
STCAFITRAYCNEUQERF Models PhaseSpectrumLearning CVPR '21 SPSL[76] 95.32(AUC)
Spatial&FrequencyLearning
|     |     |     |     | AAAI | '23 LRL[11] |     | 99.46(AUC) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ----------- | --- | ---------- |
CF#10. ConvNetwith SpatioTemporalFrequency ECCV '20 TRN[80] 99.12(AUC)
| SequenceModel& |     | KnowledgeDistillation |     |     | '22 ADD†[65] |     | 95.46(ACC) |
| -------------- | --- | --------------------- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- | ---------- |
AAAI
LearningStrategies
CF#11. Specialized Intra-SyncwithFrequency '22 CD-Net[106] 98.50(AUC)
ECCV
Network&Learning CollaborativeLearning CVPR '23 SFDG[124] 95.98(AUC)
Strategies
| STCAFITRALAICEPS |         | RegionTracking         |     | CVPR | '21 RFM[121]    |     | 99.97(AUC) |
| ---------------- | ------- | ---------------------- | --- | ---- | --------------- | --- | ---------- |
|                  |         | FacialFeaturesModeling |     |      | '21 FD2Net[135] |     | 99.68(AUC) |
| CF#12.           | ConvNet |                        |     | CVPR |                 |     |            |
|                  |         | 2ndOrderAnomaly        |     | CVPR | '22 SOLA[38]    |     | 98.10(AUC) |
|                  | Models  | Audio-videoAnomaly     |     |      | '23 AVAD[39]    |     | -          |
CVPR
|     |     | GradPatternLearning |     | CVPR | '23 LGrad†[111] |     | 66.70(ACC) |
| --- | --- | ------------------- | --- | ---- | --------------- | --- | ---------- |
CF#13. Sequence TemporalLandmarkLearning CVPR '21 LRNet†[110] 99.90(AUC)
ModelwithLearning NoisePatternLearning '23 NoiseDF[122] 93.99(AUC)
AAAI
Strategies
and also boosts the detection performance as it helps in 3.4.2. Group2:SpatiotemporalArtifact.Therewere15
identifying faces versus other region inconsistencies [29] spatiotemporal artifact-based detectors. Three key group
and also enables the use of unsupervised methods [136] observations are worth mentioning.
| for deepfake | detection. |     |             |       |               |            |     |
| ------------ | ---------- | --- | ----------- | ----- | ------------- | ---------- | --- |
|              |            |     | Observation | 1: No | temporal-only | detectors. |     |
Due to

the visual nature of facial deepfakes, all models in this Thereare3distinctCFsfromfrequencyartifactgroup.
category in addition to temporal artifacts (2B) also focus CF#9consistsof2detectorsthatfocusexclusivelyon
onspatialartifacts(2A).Infact,thereisnotemporal-only frequencyartifacts,andtheothertwo,whichalsoconsider
detector among all 51 detectors in this study. spatial artifacts. However, all 4 detectors use ConvNets
Observation2:No-singleframedetectors.Buildingon (4A) to learn the features of these artifacts, employing
thepreviousobservation.Thefocusonthetemporalaspect techniques like frequency learning [92], phase spectrum
of the data means that all detectors use multiple frames learning [76] and spatial-frequency learning [11]. Their
fromthevideoatoncefordeepfakedetection.Thisaspect performance on same dataset (5A) validation showcase
helps in identifying the interframe inconsistencies. that ConvNets are equally good for both type of artifacts.
Observation 3: Challenge in finding the balance. As CF#10and#11bothfocusonspatiotemporalartifacts
the focus of detectors is now divided among two spaces, in addition to frequency. However, CF #10 detectors use
spatial and temporal, it becomes a challenge to find the ConvNet models (4A) with techniques like Knowledge
|         |           |       |       |          |           |         | distillation | [65] whereas, | CF  | #11 detectors |     | opt for | more |
| ------- | --------- | ----- | ----- | -------- | --------- | ------- | ------------ | ------------- | --- | ------------- | --- | ------- | ---- |
| perfect | balancing | point | where | the best | detection | perfor- |              |               |     |               |     |         |      |
mance could be obtained from the features of these two specialized networks (4C) to use technique collabora-
spaces. tive learning [124] and intra-sync with frequency [106].
Allthespatiotemporalmodelsadditionallyutilizeface Overall both CF #10 and #11 target same artifacts while
extraction in Step 3. Among the spatiotemporal detectors, choosing significantly different methodologies.
| there are | three distinct |     | conceptual | framework |     | representa- |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | ---------- | --------- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
tions. 3.4.4. Group 4: Special Artifact. This group consists of
CF #6, similar to CF #1, focuses purely on ConvNets 7 detectors, marked by one significant observation.
(4A) however due to the presence of temporal data the Observation: Beyond spatial, temporal and frequency
|            |          |     |          |           |         |          | artifacts. | This group | highlight | a   | unique | but very | sig- |
| ---------- | -------- | --- | -------- | --------- | ------- | -------- | ---------- | ---------- | --------- | --- | ------ | -------- | ---- |
| techniques | employed |     | in these | detectors | differs | signifi- |            |            |           |     |        |          |      |
cantlyfromCF#1.Forinstance,thefocusismoretoward nificant aspect, i.e., targeting a mix of spatial, temporal
methods which take advantage of temporal aspects like and frequency artifacts is important in developing an
time discrepancy learning [129], anomalies in heartbeat effective deepfake detector. However, at the same time,
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | targeting | higher level | characteristics, |     | such | as face | re- |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------- | ------------ | ---------------- | --- | ---- | ------- | --- |
rhythm[91],multi-instancelearning[73]andglobal-local
frame learning [49]. gion tracking [121], audio-video anomalies [39], gradi-
CF #7 is the most diverse among all CFs in its selec- ent patterns [111], temporal landmarks [110], and noise
tion of Step #4 IFs, as it constitutes ConvNet detectors patterns [122], provide more meaningful and explainable
|           |       |             |     |       |       |             | features | for deepfake | detectors. |     |     |     |     |
| --------- | ----- | ----------- | --- | ----- | ----- | ----------- | -------- | ------------ | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| (4A) with | a mix | of sequence |     | model | (4B), | specialized |          |              |            |     |     |     |     |
network (4C) and learning strategies (4D), in an effort Alimitedamountofworkhasbeendoneinthespecial
to learn spatiotemporal inconsistencies or physiological artifact(2D)category.WecategorizedthemintotwoCFs.
behaviors like reading mouth movements. There are only CFs #12 and #13 target higher-level characteristics
usingdifferentmodels:CF#12employsConvNetmodels
| limited     | studies that | have       | explored  | this | avenue, | making it |            |             |          |     |        |       |       |
| ----------- | ------------ | ---------- | --------- | ---- | ------- | --------- | ---------- | ----------- | -------- | --- | ------ | ----- | ----- |
|             |              |            |           |      |         |           | (4A) while | CF #13 uses | sequence |     | models | (4B), | show- |
| a promising | area         | for future | research. |      |         |           |            |             |          |     |        |       |       |
CF#8containsexclusivelysequencemodel-basedde- casing diverse detection approaches for various deepfake
tectors (4B), which is the most straight forward choice manipulations.Forexample,temporallandmarks[110]are
|              |           |          |           |          |             |        | better captured | by sequence    |          | models, | whereas   | ConvNets |         |
| ------------ | --------- | -------- | --------- | -------- | ----------- | ------ | --------------- | -------------- | -------- | ------- | --------- | -------- | ------- |
| for temporal | data.     | However, |           | due to   | the spatial | nature |                 |                |          |         |           |          |         |
|              |           |          |           |          |             |        | excel in        | facial feature | modeling | [135].  | Selecting |          | the ap- |
| of facial    | deepfakes | as       | discussed | earlier, | techniques  | like   |                 |                |          |         |           |          |         |
spatio-temporal modules in convolutional LSTMs [115] propriateModel&Trainingmethodology(Step#4)hinges
and vision transformers [14] become more relevant in on the detector’s focus (i.e., special artifacts), identifiable
this context. As they help the model learn spatiotemporal through our 5-step conceptual framework and taxonomy.
| features | of the | data better       | than | typical | sequence | models |               |          |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------- | ------ | ----------------- | ---- | ------- | -------- | ------ | ------------- | -------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| such as  | LSTMs  | and transformers. |      |         |          |        | 4. Evaluation | Settings |     |     |     |     |     |
3.4.3. Group 3: Frequency Artifact. This group com- The current detectors research landscape poses chal-
prises 8 frequency-based detectors, highlighted by 2 key lenges in comparing model performance due to variations
observations. in datasets, metrics, and methodologies, obscuring the
Observation 1: Few frequency-only detectors. There impact of model architecture and training methods. To
are only 2 detectors that are purely targeting frequency address this and RQ2, we employ a systematic evaluation
artifact (2C) whereas the remaining 6 target frequency approachtostreamlineperformancecomparisonandiden-
with either spatial (2A) or spatiotemporal (2A 2B) arti- tifyIFsfromourdetectortaxonomy.Werigorouslyevalu-
facts. This shows that the frequency features are mostly ated deepfake detectors on various datasets to ensure fair-
considered as supplementary information just to enhance ness. From the detectors identified in RQ1, we carefully
|               |             |     |     |      |          |           | selected | 16, based on | strict | criteria | (Section | 4.1). | These |
| ------------- | ----------- | --- | --- | ---- | -------- | --------- | -------- | ------------ | ------ | -------- | -------- | ----- | ----- |
| the detection | performance |     | and | more | emphasis | is on the |          |              |        |          |          |       |       |
visual aspect through spatial or spatiotemporal data. detectorsformedthebasisforsubsequentexperiments.We
Observation 2: No frequency-temporal detectors. The chose evaluation strategies and datasets for three settings:
combination of frequency artifacts (2C) with temporal gray-box, white-box, and black-box (Section 4.2).
artifacts(2B)isnotexploredinanyofthedetectors.This
may be due to the visual emphasis on spatial components 4.1. Detectors for Evaluation
| in facial | deepfakes, | making |     | them a | primary | focus for |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------- | ---------- | ------ | --- | ------ | ------- | --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
feature learning. However, the efficacy of this approach To address RQ2, we rigorously evaluated the per-
remains unconfirmed without additional research. formance of various deepfake detectors across various

Table3.EVALUATIONSTRATEGY.“DETECTIONDIFFICULTY” datasets: DFDC [27] and CelebDF [74], we aim to sim-
INDICATESTHELEVELOFPRIORKNOWLEDGEAVAILABILITY. ulate scenarios where detectors have limited information
about the deepfake generation process. This scenario rep-
Creation Source/Target Method Detection
Datasets resentsamiddlegroundbetweenblack-boxandwhite-box
Control Knowledge Knowledge Difficulty
White-box ✓ ✓ ✓ ••• evaluations, where detectors operate with partial informa-
Gray-box ✗ Partly Partly ••• tion, reflecting common real-world scenarios where some
Black-box ✗ ✗ ✗ •••
knowledge exists but complete control is lacking.
The DFDC dataset [27] , released by Facebook, con-
tains more than 100,000 faceswap videos of 3,426 actors,
datasets,ensuringameticulousandequitablecomparison.
diverseingender,ageandethnicity.Duetolimitedpublic
To this end, we selected a subset of detectors from the
informationaboutitscreation,itsuitsgray-boxevaluation.
51 identified in RQ1 (see Table 2) by employing the
The subsequent CelebDF dataset CelebDF [74] presents
following inclusion criteria:
more sophisticated deepfakes with 590 original YouTube-
(i) Generalization Claims. Only detectors with
sourced videos of celebrities with diverse demographics
demonstrated generalizability on unseen datasets were
in terms of age, ethnicity, and gender, leading to 5,639
selected, focusing on those explicitly designed for broad
DeepFakevideos.Thisenhancesthevarietyofchallenging
applicability across deepfake variants.
samples for evaluation.
(ii) Open Source with Model Weights. Given the
White-box Generalizability Evaluation. Our study
difficulty of replicating training environments, we in-
uniquely evaluates deepfake detectors in controlled en-
cluded only open-source detectors with available pre-
vironments, where we systematically control the video
trained models, which resulted in 16 SoTA detectors that
sources,targets,andthegenerationprocess.Afterinitially
are indicated by † in Table 2. These were mainly trained
identifying20leadingtoolsascandidates,ourrigorousse-
on the FF++ dataset, except for CLRNet and CCViT,
lectioncriterianarrowedthechoicesdownto7,asdetailed
which used DFDC, and their generalizability was tested
inTable4).Thisevaluationsetupaimstomimicscenarios
on advanced deepfake datasets, as detailed in subsequent
where we have full information and control over the
sections.
deepfakegeneration,providinginsightsintothedetector’s
Pre-training Sources. Most methods leverage pre-
performanceunderdifferentconditions.WhileRQ2could
training on the FaceForensics++ datasets [99], either par-
potentially be addressed through validation in gray-box
tiallyorentirely.Notably,theCLRNetandCCViTmodels
scenarios, the lack of transparency in gray-box settings in
undergo pre-training using the DFDC dataset, specifically
previous studies has hindered a thorough examination of
preparedfortheDeepfakeDetectionChallenge;therefore,
RQ3. This white-box approach allows for an exhaustive
we omitted them from DFDC results in Fig. 3. A distinct
assessment of Influential Factors (IFs) identified in RQ1,
approach to pre-training is observed in LGrad, where the
which would be challenging in less transparent settings.
authors employ a novel dataset generated with ProGAN.
Inference Process. During inference, detector config-
urations adhere strictly to the specifications in the respec-
Table4.DEEPFAKEGENERATIONTOOLSINCLUDEDINTHE
WHITE-BOXSTUDY.OURSELECTEDDEEPFAKEGENERATORSARE
tive paper. For frame-based prediction methodologies, we HIGHLIGHTEDINGREEN.INTHETABLE,THE“BEINGSERVICED”
aggregate frame predictions to derive video probability or COLUMNINDICATESWHETHERTHEPROGRAMISSTILL
scores.Conversely,formulti-framedectors,weselectively OPERATIONALOROUTDATED,WITHTHELASTUPDATEYEAR
sample frames based on their designated temporal length
PROVIDEDBESIDEIT.
forprediction.AllinferencesarerunonasingleNVIDIA
GeForce RTX 3090 GPU. Program S O ou p r e c n e StarNo. ForkNo. S B ev e i i c n e g d Vi F c r ti e m ed & o D m ri o v f er (m Sc a o x r : e 6)
FacePlay[34] ✗ - - ✓(2023) ✓✗ 2
EvaluationMetrics.Inthemainmanuscript,wefocus DeepFakesWeb[22] ✗ - - ✓ ✓✓ 3
DeepFaceLab[16] ✓ 42k 9.4k ✓(2022) ✓✓ 6
on the AUC and F1 score due to their resilience to DeepFaceLive[17] ✓ 17.1k 2.5k ✓(2023) ✗✓ 5
FaceApp[33] ✗ - - ✓(2023) ✓✗ 2
class imbalance, and their frequent use in the literature. Reface[94] ✗ - - ✓(2023) ✓✗ 2
Dfaker[26] ✓ 461 151 ✓(2020) ✓✓ 6
Additional metrics, including accuracy (ACC), recall, and Faceswap[35] ✓ 46.7k 12.6k ✓(2023) ✓✓ 6
LightWeight[35] ✓ 46.7k 12.6k ✓(2023) ✓✓ 6
precision, are detailed in Table 7 in our Supplementary deepfakes’sfaceswap[20] ✓ 3k 1k ✗(2018) ✓✓ 5
Faceswap-GAN[77] ✓ 3.3k 840 ✗(2019) ✓✓ 5
Material. FOM-Animation[104] ✓ 13.7k 3.1k ✓(2023) ✓✓ 6
FOM-Faceswap[104] ✓ 13.7k 3.1k ✓(2023) ✓✓ 6
FSGAN[89] ✓ 702 143 ✓(2023) ✓✓ 6
DeepFaker[18] ✗ - - ✓(2023) ✓✗ 2
4.2. Evaluation Strategies & Datasets Revive[96] ✗ - - ✓(2023) ✓✗ 2
Fakeit[36] ✗ - - ✗ ✗✗ 0
DeepFakerBot[19] ✗ - - ✗ ✓✓ 2
Revel.ai[95] ✗ - - ✓(2023) ✓✓ 3
Driven by RQ2 and RQ3, we implement three eval- S li i c m ol S ic w o ap [7 [ 5 1 ] 0] ✓ ✗ 2 - 70 - 3 ✓ ✗( ( C 2 l 0 o 2 s 3 e ) d) ✓ ✓ ✓ ✗ 5 1
uation strategies-black-box, gray-box, and white-box set- D D e e e e p p f c a a k k e e. S io tu [ d 1 i 5 o ] [21] ✗ ✗ - - - - ✓ ✗( ( C 2 l 0 o 2 s 3 e ) d) ✓ ✗ ✓ ✗ 3 0
tings (Table 3)-to reflect varying transparency and control
over the deepfake generation process. This methodology Ourcomprehensiveprocedureforpreparationandgen-
addressesthegapsinpriorsurveys,whichprimarilyfocus eration of white-box dataset is described as follows:
on gray-box scenarios with limited exploration of black- • Selected Generators Table 4 summarizes all
box contexts. published deepfake creation tools covered in our sur-
Gray-box Generalizability Evaluation. Our objec- vey. Columns two through six delineate our criteria for
tive is to thoroughly evaluate datasets where we possess selecting deepfake creation tools to be included in our
partial knowledge of, yet lack control over the source, white-box dataset creation. Following a methodical eval-
destination,orgenerationmethod.Bysubjectingalldetec- uation process and the elimination of methods that did
tors to gray-box settings, and employing two benchmark not meet our criteria, we curated a set of 7 distinct

methods: DeepFaceLab [16], Faceswap [35], specifically 5.1. Detection Results
theLightWeightvariantwithinFaceswap,DeepFaker[18],
FOM-Animation [104], and FSGAN [89]. 5.1.1. Gray-box generalizability. This section presents
• Driver and Victim Video Selection We chose generalizability results derived from the raw performance
therealvideosfromthedeepfakedetectiondataset(DFD) metrics on the CelebDF and DFDC datasets presented in
[32] as the driver and victim videos for our deepfake Fig. 3. Our key findings include:
video generation process for the following reasons: (i) • Environmentalfactorshinderdetectors’ability
All individuals featured in these videos are paid actors to even find obvious artifacts. Environmental factors,
who have provided explicit consent for their videos to be such as lighting and video quality, play a crucial role in
utilized in deepfake generation for research purposes, and deepfake detection. While CelebDF showcases superior
(ii) The dataset encompasses a wide variety of scenarios, deepfake quality compared to DFDC, the pristine light-
enhancing its diversity in this context. ing and high-quality camera setups in CelebDF videos
• DeepfakeGenerationProcessByrigorouslyfol- paradoxically make it easier for detectors to spot deep-
lowingasystematicprocess,weproduceddeepfakevideos fakeartifacts.Conversely, thepoorlylit environmentsand
foreachofthe7selectedgenerationmethods.Togenerate lower-quality recordings in DFDC create challenges for
thesedatasetvideos,weconductedthefollowingsteps:(i) detectors, making it harder to identify even significant
Selection of two random actors from a pool of 28 actors, deepfake artifacts. Despite both being second-generation
(ii)Matchingthescenariosportrayedintheoriginalvideos benchmarks, CelebDF [128] presents a greater challenge
to both the source and target actors, emphasizing crucial than DFDC, with detectors reporting lower average per-
elements such as facial expressions, body posture, and formance compared to DFDC. However, our study sug-
non-verbalcuestoaugmentthevideoquality,and(iii)Pro- gests a different perspective, where a subset of 10 de-
vision of these videos to the selected deepfake generation tectors, characterized by increased diversity and recency,
methods. Note: In most generation methods, deepfakes exhibited lower performance on DFDC than CelebDF.
are produced iteratively, with visual quality progressively Notably, detectors like LGrad, LRNet, and Cap.Forensics
improving. To ensure consistency, a coauthor manually showed consistently low performance on both datasets,
reviewed the visual fidelity, terminating the process when rangingfromthemid-50stomid-60s,renderingthemnon-
no further improvement was observed after multiple iter- competitive. Although CelebDF was released after DFDC
ations.. The real (source and target) videos utilized for and offers more detailed information, the latter features
deepfake generation constitute the real segment of the more background noise and varied lighting conditions.
dataset, comprising 54 videos. Meanwhile, the deepfake Consequently, the average performance of the detectors
segment of the dataset encompasses 28 videos for each in CelebDF (79.30%) exceeds that of DFDC (68.72%) by
of the 7 distinct methods, resulting in a total of 196 10.58%. Understanding and incorporating these auxiliary
videos(28×7=196).Inaggregate,ourstabilizeddataset factors is crucial for enhancing detection performance.
comprises 250 videos and with an average duration of 35 • Identity-based methods are only successful
sec/video, our dataset yields up to 167,000 fake frames, whenthetargetdemographicisknown.TheICTdetec-
providing robust basis for evaluating detectors in a white- tor, trained on celebrity faces, performs well on CelebDF,
box setting. demonstrating the effectiveness of identity-based meth-
Black-box Generalizability Evaluation. This evalu- ods when the target demographic matches the training
ation setting prioritizes dataset assessments without any data. However, ICT struggles on DFDC, which lacks
knowledge of the deepfake generation methods or their celebrity faces. In contrast, identity exclusion strategies
origins, mimicking real-world scenarios. We assembled a likeCADDMexcelacrossbothgray-boxdatasets,proving
comprehensive dataset from links provided by [12] com- their robustness and suitability for unknown demograph-
prising 2,000 samples sourced from 4 online platforms: ics.
Reddit,YouTube,Bilibili,andTikTok,andannotatedwith • Spatiotemporal artifact models are consistent
differentintentions,demographics,andcontexts.Thelack performers but mainly work with videos. In both
of information regarding deepfake generation methods datasets, multiple frame-based detection methods (3E)
aligns with the challenges akin to real-world detection rank among the top performers, notably LipForensics,
scenarios, emphasizing the need for detectors to perform FTCN, and AltFreezing. Indeed, with the exception of
effectively under such conditions. Adopting method in SBIs and CADDM, single-frame-based methods (3D)
[133], we extracted and labeled the first clip of each were found to exhibit strong performance on only one of
video, resulting in 513 genuine and 1,383 manipulated thetwodatasetsevaluated.Incontrast,theaforementioned
clips, excluding 104 clips due to false positives from the multipleframe-basedmethodsdemonstrateconsistentper-
face extractor in static artwork. formance across both gray-box datasets. However, they
exhibit some limitations, such as slower evaluation times
5. Evaluation Results due to multiple frame processing and their limitation
in single image detection due to missing temporal ele-
This section outlines our results motivated from RQ2 ments. Still, these spatiotemporal-based methods show-
and RQ3. We begin by summarizing our initial obser- case promising potential and should be a future research
vations across all datasets in Section 5.1. Subsequently, direction in deepfake detection.
we explore how the conceptual framework impacts detec- • Havingawell-roundedandsophisticatedmodel
tor generalizability in Section 5.2. Our evaluation of the architecture is still relevant and improves general-
performance of the chosen detectors primarily focuses on ization. The EfficientNet architecture excels in gray-box
their AUC and F1 scores. datasets, ranking as a top performer with SBIs achieving

80
60
40
20
0
L G C r a a p L d . R Fo N X r e c e t e n p s t ic io s n Net M L A ip T F A o D r D ens E i f c f s B4Att FT M C C A N X ltF -A re P e I z C in A g D D M SBI C s CViT ICT
CUA 535758 65
777
C
9
e
82
le
83
b
8
D
7
F 879091939494
6
8
0
0
49 5456
636666
D
6
F
7
D
74
C
7476767778
86
40
20
0
L Grad LR Net C E IC a f p f T B .F 4 o A X r t e c t n ep si t c io s n N L e i t pF M o A re T nsics FT M C C N A X lt - F A r P e I ezi C n A g D D M A D D SBIs
Figure 3. Gray-box results. Performance (AUC%) of selected deepfake detectors on CelebDF and DFDC datasets. The overall performance of
detectorsontheDFDCdatasettendstobelowerthanCelebDF.Toensureafaircross-evaluationcomparison,weexcludeCCViTsincethismodel
wastraineddirectlyonDFDCratherthanthestandarddeepfakedataset,FF++.
AUC scores of 93.2% on CelebDF and 86.2% on DFDC, scenarioscommoninourwhite-boxtests.ICT,specifically
while CADDM recorded 91.0% and 76.8%, respectively. designed for celebrity datasets like MS-Celeb-1M, relies
Similarly, Transformer architectures like CCViT and ICT onmemorizingidentitiesduringtrainingandutilizesArc-
lead in CelebDF performance. These results underscore Face loss [24] for identity comparison in face recognition
that superior architecture significantly boosts model ro- tasks. This approach limits ICT’s effectiveness on DFDC
bustnessandgeneralizability,evenwithextensivetraining andwhite-boxdatasets,wherethespecificidentitiesithas
data, emphasizing the importance of architecture choice learned are absent. Such specialization, while beneficial
in detection methods. in certain cases, can cause models to overfit to training
data features, hindering their ability to generalize and
detectawidearrayofdeepfakes.Conversely,despitetheir
5.1.2. White-box generalizability. Fig. 4 shows the re-
specialized network designs, XceptionNet’s sole reliance
sults of our white-box dataset experiments, leading to the
on basic optimization losses limits their generalization
following insights:
efficiency.
• Spatial-temporal methods remain superior.We
observed that the two spatial-temporal models (2A 2B),
FTCN and AltFreezing, demonstrate the highest aver- 5.1.3. Black-box generalizability. Our insights from the
age performances, with scores of 98.4% and 98.3%, re- black-box experimental results in Fig. 5 include:
spectively. Remarkably, both methods achieved F1 and • Challenges and Discrepancies between F1 and
AUC scores above 80% and 90%, respectively, across AUCScoresinin-the-wildDeepfakes.DespiteF1scores
all datasets. FTCN emphasizes learning temporal coher- exceeding 84%, no detector achieved an AUC over 70%,
ence, and is specifically designed to capture long-term highlighting the difficulty in detecting in-the-wild deep-
coherence in videos. Conversely, AltFreezing is engi- fakes. Some methods failed to identify any fakes among
neered as a spatiotemporal model, focusing on enhancing 1,383 clips at their optimal threshold, resulting in unde-
the forgery detection model’s generalization capabilities. fined (NaN) F1 scores. Conversely, a few other detectors
Furthermore, their performance does not significantly di- fail to predict any of the pristine frames at their optimal
minish when faced with geometric manipulation methods threshold,leadingtoanabsurdlyhighrecallrate(seeTable
suchasFOM(93%)orprevalentdeepfaketechniqueslike 7inSupplementaryMaterial)yetimpractical.Overall,we
DeepFaceLab (91%). can observe such a big difference between the perfor-
• Attention mechanisms contribute to enhanced mance of AUC and F1 score in Fig. 5, highlighting how
detectionperformance.Beyondmulti-frame-basedmeth- misleading it can be to use just a single metric.
ods, attention-based approaches (4C) demonstrate robust • Superiority of Attention-based and Multiple
performance across datasets as the second-best category, Frame-based Approaches. The leading methods con-
surpassing an average AUC score of 91%. CCViT lever- tinue to be attention-based (MAT and CCViT) and multi-
ages an attention mechanism derived from Transformer frame-based (AltFreezing, LipForensics, and FTCN) ap-
architecture (channel-wise attention), whereas MAT in- proaches, similar to findings in white-box evaluations.
troduces a method to capture multiple face-attentional Given the prevalence of user-friendly software offering
regions (spatial attention). Both achieved average AUC additionalsmoothingfunctions[12],detectingauthenticity
scores of 93% and 92%, respectively. Similar to Alt- based solely on single-frame-based identification factors
Freezing’s experience, both CCViT and MAT excel in becomes challenging. Nevertheless, despite its high AUC
certaindatasetsbutdecreaseonunseenvideosfromFOM score, ICT struggles to effectively discern fake from gen-
methods (86% and 89%, respectively) and FSGAN (93% uine videos, as evidenced by a notable disparity between
and 83%, respectively). its AUC and F1 scores.
• Overfitting on very specific features and us- • Significance of network architecture.Similarto
ing simple loss functions leads to underperformance. the gray-box, three of the top detectors—MAT, CCViT,
LGrad (47.78%), and ICT (61%) are among the lowest andCADDM—arebasedonspatialartifactdetection.De-
average performers in our study. This underperformance spite methodological differences, they share common fea-
is linked to each model’s specialized focus. LGrad targets tures: CADDM and MAT use EfficientNet. Transformer-
fully synthesized fake images (1A) from GANs or Diffu- based architectures in CCViT also lead the field. This un-
sion models, differing from the faceswap or reenactment derscores the pivotal role of specialized network architec-

|     |             |     |     |     |        |     | F1 Score | AUC      |     |     |     |               |     |     |
| --- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | ------ | --- | -------- | -------- | --- | --- | --- | ------------- | --- | --- |
|     | DeepFaceLab |     |     |     | Dfaker |     |          | Faceswap |     |     |     | FOM-Animation |     |     |
| 100 |             |     | 100 |     |        |     | 100      |          |     | 100 |     |               |     |     |
| 75  |             |     |     | 75  |        |     | 75       |          |     |     | 75  |               |     |     |
| 50  |             |     |     | 50  |        |     | 50       |          |     |     | 50  |               |     |     |
| 25  |             |     |     | 25  |        |     | 25       |          |     |     | 25  |               |     |     |
| 0   |             |     |     | 0   |        |     | 0        |          |     |     | 0   |               |     |     |
LGr a d IC T onNe t N e t N e t nsics ADD B Is X-A P I D M i c s B4Att MA T V i T ezing FTCN LGr a d IC T onNe t N e t N e t nsics ADD B Is X-A P I D M i c s B4Att MA T V i T ezing FTCN LGr a d IC T onNe t N e t N e t nsics ADD B Is X-A P I D M i c s B4Att MA T V i T ezing FTCN LGr a d IC T onNe t N e t N e t nsics ADD B Is X-A P I D M i c s B4Att MA T V i T ezing FTCN
ti L R C L R or e S C C A D r ens f f C C e ti L R C L R or e S C C A D r ens f f C C e ti L R C L R or e S C C A D r ens f f C C e ti L R C L R or e S C C A D r ens f f C C e
c ep p . F M p Fo E A l tF r c ep p . F M p Fo E A l tF r c ep p . F M p Fo E A l tF r c ep p . F M p Fo E A l tF r
| X   | C a          | L i |     | X C | a     | L i | X   | C a         | L i |     | X   | C a              | L i |     |
| --- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- | ----- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | ---------------- | --- | --- |
|     | FOM-Faceswap |     |     |     | FSGAN |     |     | LightWeight |     |     |     | Avg. Performance |     |     |
| 100 |              |     | 100 |     |       |     | 100 |             |     | 100 |     |                  |     |     |
| 75  |              |     |     | 75  |       |     | 75  |             |     |     | 75  |                  |     |     |
50
| 50  |     |     |     | 50  |     |     | 50  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 25  |     |     |     | 25  |     |     | 25  |     |     |     | 25  |     |     |     |
| 0   |     |     |     | 0   |     |     | 0   |     |     |     | 0   |     |     |     |
a d IC T onNe t e t e t nsics ADD B Is X-A P I D M c s B4Att MA T V i T ezing FTCN a d IC T onNe t e t e t nsics ADD B Is X-A P I D M c s B4Att MA T V i T ezing FTCN a d IC T onNe t e t e t nsics ADD B Is X-A P I D M c s B4Att MA T V i T ezing FTCN a d IC T onNe t e t e t nsics ADD B Is X-A P I D M c s B4Att MA T V i T ezing FTCN
LGr L R N L R N e S C A D ens i f C C e LGr L R N L R N e S C A D ens i f C C e LGr L R N L R N e S C A D ens i f C C e LGr L R N L R N e S C A D ens i f C C e
ep ti C . F or M C p Fo r E f l tF r ep ti C . F or M C p Fo r E f l tF r ep ti C . F or M C p Fo r E f l tF r ep ti C . F or M C p Fo r E f l tF r
X c C a p L i A X c C a p L i A X c C a p L i A X c C a p L i A
Figure4. White-boxresults(StabilizedSet).F1scores(dashed)andAUCscores(solid)ofselecteddeepfakedetectors.
In-the-wild Type), and evaluation datasets as outlined in CF Step
|     |     |     |     |     | F1 Score | AUC |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | -------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
84 87 84 84 84 84 84 84 83 84 84 84 84 #5 (Model Validation). A case in point is ICT, which
8 0
73 66 69 is p ro m is i n g w it h C e le b DF (5 ) b ut e x h i b its s ig ni fi -
|     |       |          |       | 57 58 | 59 60 61 | 62  |     |     |     |     | A   |     |     |     |
| --- | ----- | -------- | ----- | ----- | -------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 6 0 | 48 50 | 50 50 52 | 55 55 |       |          |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
39 c an t u nd e r p erf or m an c e o n the D F D C d a ta s e t (5 B ), a n
4 0
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | entirely | novel | dataset | for it, | underscoring |     | the hurdles | in  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | -------- | ----- | ------- | ------- | ------------ | --- | ----------- | --- |
20
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | achieving | broad | generalization. |     | Similarly, |     | LGrad, | which |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------- | ----- | --------------- | --- | ---------- | --- | ------ | ----- |
| 0   |     |     | N/A |     | N/A |     |           |       |                 |     |            |     |        |       |
XceptionNet LRNet LGrad D s I LRNet s ffB4Att N s reezing ICT M CCViT MAT t a r g e t s g r a d i e n t a r t i fa c t s i n i m a g e s ge n e r a t e d b y G A N s
|     | D   | rensic CX-AP | SBI | TC s i c | CADD |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | ------------ | --- | -------- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|     | A   |              |     | F ren    |      |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
Fo M C E Fo t F a n d D i f f u s i o n m o d e l s ( 5 A ) , s h o w s d e c r e a s ed e f fi c a cy
|     | Cap .    |                                |     | L ip A l |     |     |                 |             |                   |             |          |            |           |                 |
| --- | -------- | ------------------------------ | --- | -------- | --- | --- | --------------- | ----------- | ----------------- | ----------- | -------- | ---------- | --------- | --------------- |
|     |          |                                |     |          |     |     | i n d a         | t a s e t s | f e a t u r i n g | v i d e o s | p ro d u | c e d t h  | r o u g h | F a c e s w a p |
|     |          |                                |     |          |     |     | and reenactment |             | techniques        |             | (5B).    | Therefore, | a         | method’s        |
|     | Figure5. | Black-boxresults(in-the-wild). |     |          |     |     |                 |             |                   |             |          |            |           |                 |
|     |          |                                |     |          |     |     | dependency      |             | on specific       | features    |          | from       | familiar  | training        |
|     |          |                                |     |          |     |     | datasets        | may         | not suffice       | for         | the      | accurate   | detection | of              |
tures, like EfficientNet and Transformers, over commonly deepfakes in unfamiliar datasets.
| reported  | networks, | such      | as ResNet | and    | XceptionNet, |               | in      |                   |              |     |                  |     |             |     |
| --------- | --------- | --------- | --------- | ------ | ------------ | ------------- | ------- | ----------------- | ------------ | --- | ---------------- | --- | ----------- | --- |
|           |           |           |           |        |              |               | (2)     | The               | significance | of  | the detection    |     | methodology |     |
| detecting | unknown   | deepfakes |           | in the | wild.        | Specifically, |         |                   |              |     |                  |     |             |     |
|           |           |           |           |        |              |               | towards | generalizability. |              |     | Our observations |     | underscore  |     |
Transformers effectively model long-range dependencies thatamongthefourIFsoutlinedinCFStep#2(Detection
in data, making them well-suited for identifying subtle Methodology),combiningspatial(2A)andtemporal(2B)
| patterns | in deepfake | content. | Similarly, |     | EfficientNets, | uti- |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------- | ----------- | -------- | ---------- | --- | -------------- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
elementsenhancesgeneralizabilityacrosscontexts.Exam-
| lizing | network | architecture | search | (NAS) | and | squeeze- |      |         |             |     |       |       |     |           |
| ------ | ------- | ------------ | ------ | ----- | --- | -------- | ---- | ------- | ----------- | --- | ----- | ----- | --- | --------- |
|        |         |              |        |       |     |          | ples | include | AltFreezing | and | FTCN, | which | are | effective |
and-excitation (SE) blocks, enhance manipulated facial because many deepfake generation techniques focus on
regions while suppressing irrelevant ones. manipulating individual frames, overlooking temporal co-
• Challenges for detectors without artifact min- herence.Table6inSupp.Bshowsadditionalperformance
| ing or | with overly | specialized |     | artifacts. | Our | analysis |         |     |               |     |              |     |           |        |
| ------ | ----------- | ----------- | --- | ---------- | --- | -------- | ------- | --- | ------------- | --- | ------------ | --- | --------- | ------ |
|        |             |             |     |            |     |          | metrics | for | our white-box |     | experiments, |     | including | recall |
identifies XceptionNet as less effective, with AUC scores rates. Analysis reveals that five models lead in recall
of 39% due to it reliance on basic optimization loss and performance, achieving an average of over 80% recall
lack of artifact mining, despite their specialized designs. acrossthewhite-boxdatasetwhilemaintaininghighAUC
| On the | other hand, | methods |     | targeting | very | specific | ar-     |       |              |     |         |     |     |        |
| ------ | ----------- | ------- | --- | --------- | ---- | -------- | ------- | ----- | ------------ | --- | ------- | --- | --- | ------ |
|        |             |         |     |           |      |          | and F1: | FTCN, | AltFreezing, |     | CLRNet, | MAT | and | CCViT. |
tifacts, such as LRNet and LGrad, also underperform, Four of these five models target spatiotemporal artifacts
indicating a deficiency in processing subtle spatial details (2A 2B), except for MAT, which targets only spatial
and identifying nuanced anomalies like irregular blending artifacts. In security-critical contexts like facial liveness
| or temporal | inconsistencies |     | in  | deepfakes. |     |     |               |     |                |     |          |          |     |         |
| ----------- | --------------- | --- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- | ------------- | --- | -------------- | --- | -------- | -------- | --- | ------- |
|             |                 |     |     |            |     |     | verification, |     | misclassifying |     | a single | deepfake | as  | genuine |
posessignificantrisks.Thus,scrutinizingtherecallmetric,
5.2. Impact of Influential Factors which indicates the percentage of deepfakes accurately
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | identified | by  | the model, | is crucial. |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------- | --- | ---------- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Our extensive evaluation using three distinctive set- On the other hand, factors lowering generalizability
tings demonstrates the impact of the identified IFs within include heavy reliance on niche artifacts (2D) by models
our CF. To elucidate this impact, we provide specific like LRNet and LGrad, or ignoring artifact mining (using
illustrations without loss of generality: 2A alone) by XceptionNet, compromising model perfor-
(1) The imperative of universality in deepfake de- mance in unknown scenarios. Consequently, CF Step #3
tection. Our classification of deepfake types into three (Data Processing) is crucial for each approach’s effec-
distinct IFs under CF Step #1 (Deepfake Type 1A-C) tiveness. Using multiple frames (3E) in spatial-temporal
states that a fully developed deepfake detection method strategies, as in FTCN and AltFreezing, aids in learning
must be capable of effectively identifying new deepfakes generalizabledeepfakeindicators.Conversely,prioritizing
belonging to these three groups. This underscores the image processing (3B) to emphasize distinct artifacts,
significance of utilizing diverse data sources (Deepfake like landmarks in LRNet and gradients in LGrad, may

reduceeffectivenessagainstnoveldeepfakeslackingthese
specific indicators. Real
DeepFaceLab
(3)Critical roleof modelarchitecture andlearning
Dfaker
approach.Inthechallengingcontextofblack-boxscenar- Faceswap
FOM-Animation
ios, among the four IFs of CF Step #4 (Model and Train-
FOM-Faceswap
ing), EfficientNet (such as MAT and CADDM) (4C) and FSGAN
Transformer-based architectures (such as CCViT) (using LightWeight
amixof 4A-C)emergeasthemosteffective,outperform-
ing numerous alternatives. Additionally, attention-based Figure 6. t-SNE of white-box datasets with AltFreezing method. Each
learningstrategies(4D)proveexceptionallypromisingfor dotcorrespondstoonevideorepresentation.
both black and white-box environments, particularly the
MAT method. Sequence models with spatial or temporal
with the real video samples. Our findings demonstrate
artifacts, as previously mentioned, show promise in most
the necessity for a more comprehensive evaluation of
scenarios.Consequently,theconsiderationsoutlinedinCF
generalizability, advocating for a thorough examination
Step #4—spanning all four categories—are essential for
through our proposed evaluation strategy.
the development of a practical and more generalizable
deepfake detector. Common concerns regarding the IFs
6.3. Synthesis Deepfake Type is Overlooked
are discussed in Supp. C.
Among the 51 detectors we examined, over 96% pri-
6. Discussion
marily target reenactment or faceswap detection. Notably,
the emergence of diffusion models activates synthesis-
6.1. Challenges in Reproducing SOTA based deepfakes (1A), yet research on effective detection
mechanisms for them is limited. Although some initial
Examiningover50deepfakedetectorspublishedintop efforts have been made to identify fully synthetic images
venues from 2019 to 2023 reveals a concerning pattern. generated by diffusion, this avenue is still in its infancy
Only 15 (30%) of these models have publicly released and requires substantial exploration [97]. The prospect
theirpre-trainedmodels.Thislackoftransparency,evident of developing meta-detectors capable of distinguishing
in the remaining 70%, hampers reproducibility and limits betweenfaceswap,reenactment,andsynthesiscouldserve
understandingoftheiractuallimitations,therebyobstruct- as an initial step in the detection pipeline.
ingeffectivecomparativeanalysis.Thisaccessibilityissue
slows down the evaluation of different methodologies, 6.4. Influential Factors and Case Study on Effi-
potentially hindering progress in deepfake detection. Pro-
cientNet
moting the release of pre-trained models is vital for en-
hancing comparative studies, accelerating advancements,
While we meticulously identify the IFs that re-
and ensuring the robustness of these methodologies in
searchersconsiderindetectordevelopmentandoutlinethe
real-world applications.
impact of many as use cases, quantifying the individual
influence of each factor on bottom-line efficacy proves
6.2. Real-World Deepfake Detection is still an challenging.Thisdifficultyarisesfromtheinherentlypre-
Open Issue dictivenatureofAI-basedmodelsandthecomplexitiesin
retraining detectors with diverse IF combinations, owing
Our results reveal that no single detector consis- to insufficient construction details. Addressing this chal-
tently excels across all categories within our proposed lenge remains an ongoing avenue for future exploration.
three-tiered evaluation framework (black, gray, and white Nevertheless, the comprehensive identification of these
boxes). While many detectors claim to be generalizable factors is invaluable, offering the potential to enhance
based on gray-box evaluations, they are proficient mainly the qualification of methods by leveraging a thorough
in specific scenarios. Specifically, detectors tailored for understanding of these critical elements. This can benefit
certaindeepfaketypes,likefaceswap(1B)orreenactment especially in uncovering their limitations. Therefore, we
(1C),oftenfalterwhenidentifyingothersyntheticvariants performed a case study (see Table 5) where we con-
(1A). Moreover, the difficulty of cross-dataset evaluation sidered just one model under different IF settings that
poses a significant challenge, potentially invalidating the were feasible for the entire pipeline of that detector. We
generalizability claims of these detectors in the broader observed how the inclusion of different IFs impacted the
contextofdeepfakedetection.Tovisuallyilluminatethese performance across our evaluation strategies (i.e., gray
distinctions, we employ dimensionality reduction via t- box, white box, black box).
distributed stochastic neighbor embedding (t-SNE) to il-
lustratethedivergentcharacteristicsofsamplesfromseven 6.5. Ethical Considerations
datasets, as perceived by the model (See Fig. 6). We
employ the AltFreezing model [125] to process images We emphasize ethical practices in creating and using
from seven datasets and extract their intermediate repre- deepfake datasets, including tools for creation and detec-
sentations. As shown, while the real dataset is distinctly tion from the research community without any offensive
separated from other deepfake types, some simpler fake content. Our approach has been approved by the ethics
types, such as FOM, are well differentiated, whereas reviewboardsofourorganizations,reflectingourcommit-
others, like Lightweight and FSGAN, tend to overlap menttomaintaininghighethicalstandardsinourresearch.

Table5.CASESTUDYOFAPPLYINGDIFFERENTINFLUENTIAL methodologies(4A-D).Hence,itcansignificantlyimprove
FACTORS(IFS)ONEFFICIENTNETMODELUSINGOURFIVE-STEP detection accuracy and robustness. On the other hand, as
CONCEPTUALFRAMEWORK.HERE,3A.1,3A.2,AND3A.3REFERTO discussed in Sec. 5, we found that network architecture
DIFFERENTDATAAUGMENTATIONOFAUTOAUGMENTATION,FAKE
plays a pivotal role in detection efficacy, despite initially
AUGMENTATION,ANDFREQUENCYTRANSFORM,RESPECTIVELY.
SIMILARLY,3C.1,3C.2,3C.3,AND3C.4REFERTODIFFERENTFACE being designed for other applications. Therefore, employ-
EXTRACTIONMETHODSSUCHASMTCNN,BLAZEFACE, ingstrategieslikeNeuralArchitectureSearch(NAS)with
RETINAFACE,ANDDLIB.ALSO,4C.1AND4C.2REFERTOTHE reinforcement learning to discover optimal architectures
DIFFERENTSETTINGSOFEFFICIENTNET,SUCHAS380AND224,
RESPECTIVELY,WHICHWERESELECTEDBASEDONTHE
(4C) specifically tailored for deepfake detection repre-
COMPATIBILITYWITHTHEOTHERIFS.LASTLY,4D.1,4D.2,AND sents a promising research avenue.
4D.3REFERTODIFFERENTLEARNINGSTRATEGIESSUCHAS e Development of more resilient SoTA. Actively
ID-UNAWARE,SIAMESEANDMULTI-ATTENTION.
identifying deepfakes in various settings is crucial for
developing robust detectors. We can establish a more rig-
INFLUENTIALFACTORS AUCSCORES
Step#1 Step#2 Step#3 Step#4 Step#5 White Black Gray Avg. orous testing environment by refining evaluation datasets
1B 1C 2A 3A.1 3C.1 3D 4C.1 5B 61.8 63.4 80.1 68.4
1B 1C 2A 3A.2 3C.4 3D 4C.1 5B 81.1 55.3 89.7 75.4 to include malicious deepfakes that might be missed by
1B 1C 2A 2C 3A.3 3C.1 3D 4C.1 5B 66.8 48.2 73.8 62.9
1B 1C 2A 3C.1 3D 4C.1 5B 85.8 64.2 81.6 77.2 searching online media platforms. Expanding the dataset
1B 1C 2A 3C.1 3D 4C.2 5B 87.3 60.8 84.5 77.5
1B 1C 2A 3C.1 3D 4C.2 4D.1 5B 83.7 61.5 83.9 76.4 to include content in different languages also widens
1B 1C 2A 3C.2 3D 4C.2 4D.2 5B 91.5 57.4 81.5 76.8
1B 1C 2A 3C.3 3D 4C.2 4D.3 5B 91.6 68.9 81.8 80.8 detection capabilities. Updating training datasets with the
latest techniques is essential to keep pace with emerging,
more complex deepfakes. Also, incorporating continual
7. Future Directions
and lifelong learning methods into evaluation and train-
ing ensures that detectors remain versatile and effective
We propose seven strategic directions to combat the
against dynamic threats posed by deepfakes.
proliferation of deepfakes effectively.
f Holistic Approach. Effectively addressing the deep-
a Conceptual Framework Utilization. Developers
fake challenge requires a multi-faceted approach. This in-
seeking to create new deepfake detectors can utilize our
cludes the integration of advanced detection technologies,
Conceptual Framework (CF) as a strategic tool to vali-
data provenance tracking methods, comprehensive pub-
date their hypotheses and pinpoint the Influential Factors
lic education to raise awareness, and robust government
(IFs)requiredforachievingpeakperformance.Thisstruc-
policies to regulate usage. By synthesizing these diverse
tured approach provides a roadmap for identifying and
strategies, we can establish a resilient and comprehensive
incorporating critical elements into detector design. For
defense against the manipulation and misuse of deepfake
instance, those considering the adoption of transformer
technology.
technology for deepfake identification can compare their
g ProactiveRatherThanReactive. Akeyresearchdi-
initialhypothesiswiththetransformer-basedmethods(i.e.,
rectionistotransitionfromsolelyreactivedeepfakedetec-
CCViT and ICT) identified by our CF to gain insights
tiontopioneeringproactivestrategies,suchasdeveloping
into their strengths and limitations in deepfake detection
fingerprinting techniques for deepfake media. This allows
context, potentially streamlining the development process
forthetracingoforiginsandtrackingofdeepfakesources,
and saving significant effort.
lessening the dependence on broad-spectrum deepfake
b AdoptionofOpenDetectorsandThree-LevelEval-
detection (1A-C and 5A-B). Implementing proactive de-
uations. Inthispaper,wehavelaidoutourrecommended
fense strategies reduces the need for creating exhaustive
model evaluation framework that should be adopted in
model architectures and extracting specific or generalized
future deepfake detector studies. This includes subjecting
artifacts(3A-B)fornewlyemergingdeepfakes,facilitating
them to thorough evaluation using gray-box, white-box,
their early removal and curtailing the spread of misinfor-
and black-box assessments and reporting results using
mation.
extensive metrics, including AUC, precision, recall, and
F1score,inadditiontoaccuracy.Weadditionallyadvocate
forresearcherstoreleasetheirdevelopeddetectormodels.
8. Social Impacts and Concluding Thoughts
This approach ensures the validation of generalizability,
promoting transparency and reliability in deepfake detec-
tion. We believe deepfakes are becoming a more serious
c Deeper Analysis of IFs. The combination of our threat to our society, as they continue to grow in scale,
detector taxonomy and evaluation framework opens av- complexity, and sophistication. There is an immediate
enuesforuncoveringdeeperinsightsintoIFs.Thiscanbe need to examine various deepfake detection tools and
achieved through meticulous, fine-grained ablation stud- understand their limitations through thorough analysis
ies, employing consistent training hyperparameters and and evaluation to protect our society. Our work fills
architectural settings, possibly enhanced by using white- this gap with a detailed framework and assessment of
box datasets for training. current research, identifying spatiotemporal models such
d MultimodalandSpecializedModel. Futureresearch as FTCN as leaders but noting a significant disparity
should move beyond single-source data dependence, ex- between claimed and actual detector performance. Future
ploringmultimodalmodelsthatintegratecuesfromaudio, researchshouldaimtodevelopmoregeneralizeddetection
language, visual elements, and metadata (including iden- methods, evaluate gray, black, and white-box settings,
tity). This comprehensive approach harnesses the syner- and explore proactive defenses. We also intend for our
gisticeffectofcombiningmultipledatatypes,capitalizing framework and evaluation methodology to adapt to new
on the strengths of various architectures and learning deepfake challenges.

Acknowledgement
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | [15] Deepcake.io |     | Site. Deepcakeio. |     | http://deepcake.io/, |     | 2021. Ac- |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------------- | --- | ----------------- | --- | -------------------- | --- | --------- |
cessed:2023-01-01.
| This | work | was | partly | supported |     | by Institute | for |                  |     |        |            |              |     |                 |
| ---- | ---- | --- | ------ | --------- | --- | ------------ | --- | ---------------- | --- | ------ | ---------- | ------------ | --- | --------------- |
|      |      |     |        |           |     |              |     | [16] DeepFaceLab |     | GitHub | Community. | Deepfacelab. |     | https://github. |
Information & communication Technology Planning & com/iperov/DeepFaceLab,2023. Accessed:2023-01-01.
| evaluation | (IITP) | grants | funded | by  | the | Korean | govern- |                    |     |               |     |                                  |     |     |
| ---------- | ------ | ------ | ------ | --- | --- | ------ | ------- | ------------------ | --- | ------------- | --- | -------------------------------- | --- | --- |
|            |        |        |        |     |     |        |         | [17] DeepFaceLive. |     | Deepfacelive. |     | https://drive.google.com/file/d/ |     |     |
mentMSIT:(RS-2022-II221199,RS-2024-00337703,RS- 1KS37b2IBuljJuZiJsgnWuzs7Y5OfkOyI/view/, 2023. Accessed:
| 2022-II220688,         |     | RS-2019-II190421,  |                   |     | RS-2023-00230 |          |     | 2023-01-01.                |                      |       |               |                              |                     |     |
| ---------------------- | --- | ------------------ | ----------------- | --- | ------------- | -------- | --- | -------------------------- | -------------------- | ----- | ------------- | ---------------------------- | ------------------- | --- |
| 337, RS-2024-00356293, |     |                    | RS-2022-II221045, |     |               | RS-2021- |     |                            |                      |       |               |                              |                     |     |
|                        |     |                    |                   |     |               |          |     | [18] DeepFakerApplication. |                      |       | Deepfaker.    | https://deepfaker.app/,2021. |                     |     |
| II212068,              | and | RS-2024-00437849). |                   |     |               |          |     | Accessed:2023-01-01.       |                      |       |               |                              |                     |     |
|                        |     |                    |                   |     |               |          |     | [19] DeepFaker             | Bot                  | Site. | Deepfakerbot. | https://t.me/DeepFakerBot/,  |                     |     |
| References             |     |                    |                   |     |               |          |     | 2021.                      | Accessed:2023-01-01. |       |               |                              |                     |     |
|                        |     |                    |                   |     |               |          |     | [20] DeepFakes             | GitHub               |       | Community.    | Deepfakes.                   | https://github.com/ |     |
[1] Andrew,StableDiffusionArt.Fine-tuneyouraiimageswiththese deepfakes/faceswap,2017. Accessed:2021-01-01.
| simple | prompting | techniques. |     | https://stable-diffusion-art.com/ |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------ | --------- | ----------- | --- | --------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
fine-tune-your-ai-images-with-these-simple-prompting-techniques/, [21] DeepfakeStudio Application. Deepfakestudio. https:
//play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.deepworkings.
| 2022. | Accessed:2023-05-01. |     |     |     |     |     |     |                                   |     |     |     |     |                      |     |
| ----- | -------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | -------------------- | --- |
|       |                      |     |     |     |     |     |     | dfstudio&hl=en&gl=US&pli=1/,2021. |     |     |     |     | Accessed:2023-01-01. |     |
[2] WeimingBai,YufanLiu,ZhipengZhang,BingLi,andWeiming
Hu. Aunet: Learning relations between action units for face [22] DeepFakesWeb Site. Deepfakesweb. https://deepfakesweb.com/,
forgery detection. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference 2021. Accessed:2023-01-01.
onComputerVisionandPatternRecognition,2023.
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | [23] Jiankang | Deng, | Jia | Guo, Evangelos | Ververas, | Irene | Kotsia, and |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------- | ----- | --- | -------------- | --------- | ----- | ----------- |
StefanosZafeiriou.Retinaface:Single-shotmulti-levelfacelocal-
[3] NicoloBonettini,EdoardoDanieleCannas,SaraMandelli,Luca
Bondi, Paolo Bestagini, and Stefano Tubaro. Video face ma- isationinthewild. InProceedingsoftheIEEE/CVFconference
nipulation detection through ensemble of cnns. In 2020 25th oncomputervisionandpatternrecognition,2020.
| international |     | conference | on  | pattern | recognition | (ICPR). | IEEE, |               |       |     |              |      |              |            |
| ------------- | --- | ---------- | --- | ------- | ----------- | ------- | ----- | ------------- | ----- | --- | ------------ | ---- | ------------ | ---------- |
|               |     |            |     |         |             |         |       | [24] Jiankang | Deng, | Jia | Guo, Niannan | Xue, | and Stefanos | Zafeiriou. |
2021.
Arcface:Additiveangularmarginlossfordeepfacerecognition.
[4] Jane Bromley, Isabelle Guyon, Yann LeCun, Eduard Sa¨ckinger, Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and
In
andRoopakShah. Signatureverificationusinga”siamese”time patternrecognition,pages4690–4699,2019.
delayneuralnetwork.Advancesinneuralinformationprocessing
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | [25] JingyiDeng,ChenhaoLin,PengHu,ChaoShen,QianqianWang, |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | -------------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
systems,1993.
andQiLi.Towardsbenchmarkingandevaluatingdeepfakedetec-
| [5] AdrianBulatandGeorgiosTzimiropoulos. |     |         |                |     |          | Howfararewefrom |     |       |                                                 |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---------------------------------------- | --- | ------- | -------------- | --- | -------- | --------------- | --- | ----- | ----------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|                                          |     |         |                |     |          |                 |     | tion. | IEEETransactionsonDependableandSecureComputing, |     |     |     |     |     |
| solving                                  | the | 2d & 3d | face alignment |     | problem? | (and a dataset  | of  |       |                                                 |     |     |     |     |     |
2024.
| 230,000 | 3d  | facial landmarks). |     | In  | International | Conference | on  |                                                                 |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | --- | ------------------ | --- | --- | ------------- | ---------- | --- | --------------------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|         |     |                    |     |     |               |            |     | [26] DFakerGitHubCommunity.Dfaker.https://github.com/dfaker/df, |     |     |     |     |     |     |
ComputerVision,2017.
2017.
[6] JunyiCao,ChaoMa,TaipingYao,ShenChen,ShouhongDing,
and Xiaokang Yang. End-to-end reconstruction-classification [27] Brian Dolhansky, Joanna Bitton, Ben Pflaum, Jikuo Lu, Russ
learning for face forgery detection. In Proceedings of the Howes, Menglin Wang, and Cristian Canton Ferrer. The
IEEE/CVFConferenceonComputerVisionandPatternRecogni- deepfake detection challenge (dfdc) dataset. arXiv preprint
| tion,2022. |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | arXiv:2006.07397,2020. |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
[7] Shenhao Cao, Qin Zou, Xiuqing Mao, Dengpan Ye, and [28] ShichaoDong,JinWang,RenheJi,JiajunLiang,HaoqiangFan,
Zhongyuan Wang. Metric learning for anti-compression facial and Zheng Ge. Implicit identity leakage: The stumbling block
InProceedingsofthe29thACMInternational
forgerydetection. to improving deepfake detection generalization. In Proceedings
ConferenceonMultimedia,2021.
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | of the | IEEE/CVF | Conference |     | on Computer | Vision | and Pattern |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------ | -------- | ---------- | --- | ----------- | ------ | ----------- |
Recognition,2023.
[8] LiangChen,YongZhang,YibingSong,JueWang,andLingqiao
Liu. Ost: Improving generalization of deepfake detection via [29] XiaoyiDong,JianminBao,DongdongChen,TingZhang,Weim-
| one-shot | test-time |     | training. | Advances | in  | Neural Information |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------- | --------- | --- | --------- | -------- | --- | ------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
ingZhang,NenghaiYu,DongChen,FangWen,andBainingGuo.
ProcessingSystems,2022.
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | Protecting | celebrities |     | from | deepfake with | identity | consistency |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------- | ----------- | --- | ---- | ------------- | -------- | ----------- |
[9] Renwang Chen, Xuanhong Chen, Bingbing Ni, and Yanhao Ge. transformer. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on
ComputerVisionandPatternRecognition,2022.
| SimSwap. |     | In Proceedings |     | of the 28th | ACM | International | Con- |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------- | --- | -------------- | --- | ----------- | --- | ------------- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
ferenceonMultimedia.ACM,2020.
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | [30] Alexey | Dosovitskiy, |     | Lucas | Beyer, Alexander |     | Kolesnikov, Dirk |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- | ------------ | --- | ----- | ---------------- | --- | ---------------- |
[10] Renwang Chen, Xuanhong Chen, Bingbing Ni, and Yanhao Ge. Weissenborn, Xiaohua Zhai, Thomas Unterthiner, Mostafa De-
SimSwap. In Proceedings of the 28th ACM International Con- hghani, Matthias Minderer, Georg Heigold, Sylvain Gelly, et al.
ferenceonMultimedia.ACM,oct2020.
Animageisworth16x16words:Transformersforimagerecog-
[11] Shen Chen, Taiping Yao, Yang Chen, Shouhong Ding, Jilin nitionatscale. arXivpreprintarXiv:2010.11929,2020.
Li, and Rongrong Ji. Local relation learning for face forgery [31] DruuzilTech&Games-YoutubeChannel. Scarlettjohanssonin
detection. In Proceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial ”moulinrouge!”-deepfake. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=
intelligence,2021.
|               |          |           |       |             |            |         |         | E5VdGFjbf8E,2023. |           |            | Accessed:2023-05-01. |                                       |     |               |
| ------------- | -------- | --------- | ----- | ----------- | ---------- | ------- | ------- | ----------------- | --------- | ---------- | -------------------- | ------------------------------------- | --- | ------------- |
| [12] Beomsang |          | Cho, Binh | M Le, | Jiwon       | Kim, Simon | Woo,    | Shahroz |                   |           |            |                      |                                       |     |               |
|               |          |           |       |             |            |         |         | [32] Nick         | Dufour    | and Andrew |                      | Gully. Contributing                   |     | data to deep- |
| Tariq,        | Alsharif | Abuadbba, |       | and Kristen | Moore.     | Towards | un-     |                   |           |            |                      |                                       |     |               |
|               |          |           |       |             |            |         |         | fake              | detection | research.  |                      | https://blog.research.google/2019/09/ |     |               |
derstanding of deepfake videos in the wild. In Proceedings contributing-data-to-deepfake-detection.html, 2019. Accessed:
| of  | the 32nd | ACM International |     | Conference |     | on Information | and |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | -------- | ----------------- | --- | ---------- | --- | -------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
2023-01-01.
KnowledgeManagement,pages4530–4537,2023.
|                           |             |        |              |                              |                |                 |     | [33] FaceApp. | Faceapp.             |     | https://www.faceapp.com/, |      |                           | 2021. Accessed: |
| ------------------------- | ----------- | ------ | ------------ | ---------------------------- | -------------- | --------------- | --- | ------------- | -------------------- | --- | ------------------------- | ---- | ------------------------- | --------------- |
| [13] Yunjey               | Choi,       | Minje  | Choi,        | Munyoung                     | Kim,           | Jung-Woo        | Ha, |               |                      |     |                           |      |                           |                 |
| SunghunKim,andJaegulChoo. |             |        |              | Stargan:Unifiedgenerativead- |                |                 |     | 2023-01-01.   |                      |     |                           |      |                           |                 |
| versarial                 | networks    | for    | multi-domain |                              | image-to-image | translation.    |     |               |                      |     |                           |      |                           |                 |
|                           |             |        |              |                              |                |                 |     | [34] FacePlay | Application.         |     | Faceplay                  | app. | https://www.faceplay.cc/, |                 |
| In                        | Proceedings | of the | IEEE         | conference                   | on             | computer vision | and |               |                      |     |                           |      |                           |                 |
|                           |             |        |              |                              |                |                 |     | 2021.         | Accessed:2023-01-01. |     |                           |      |                           |                 |
patternrecognition,2018.
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | [35] FaceSwap | GitHub | Community. |     | Faceswap. | https://github.com/ |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------- | ------ | ---------- | --- | --------- | ------------------- | --- |
[14] DavideAlessandroCoccomini,NicolaMessina,ClaudioGennaro,
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | MarekKowalski/FaceSwap,2016. |     |     |     | Accessed:2021-01-01. |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | -------------------- | --- | --- |
andFabrizioFalchi.Combiningefficientnetandvisiontransform-
ersforvideodeepfakedetection. InInternationalconferenceon [36] Fakeit Application. Fakeit. https://vk.com/fakeit/, 2021. Ac-
| imageanalysisandprocessing.Springer,2022. |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | cessed:2023-01-01. |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ----------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

[37] FederalBureauofInvestigation(FBI). Deepfakesandstolenpii [55] Hasam Khalid, Minha Kim, Shahroz Tariq, and Simon S Woo.
utilizedtoapplyforremoteworkpositions. https://www.ic3.gov/ Evaluationofanaudio-videomultimodaldeepfakedatasetusing
Media/Y2022/PSA220628,2022. Accessed:2022-07-01. unimodal and multimodal detectors. In Proceedings of the 1st
WorkshoponSyntheticMultimedia-AudiovisualDeepfakeGener-
[38] Jianwei Fei, Yunshu Dai, Peipeng Yu, Tianrun Shen, Zhihua ationandDetection,pages7–15,2021.
| Xia, | and Jian | Weng. | Learning second | order | local anomaly | for |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---- | -------- | ----- | --------------- | ----- | ------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
generalfaceforgerydetection. InProceedingsoftheIEEE/CVF [56] Hasam Khalid, Shahroz Tariq, Minha Kim, and Simon S Woo.
ConferenceonComputerVisionandPatternRecognition,2022. Fakeavceleb: A novel audio-video multimodal deepfake dataset.
InThirty-fifthConferenceonNeuralInformationProcessingSys-
[39] Chao Feng, Ziyang Chen, and Andrew Owens. Self-supervised temsDatasetsandBenchmarksTrack,2021.
| video | forensics | by audio-visual |     | anomaly | detection. | In Pro- |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ----- | --------- | --------------- | --- | ------- | ---------- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
ceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and [57] SohailAhmedKhanandDucTienDangNguyen.Deepfakedetec-
PatternRecognition,2023. tion: A comparative analysis. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.03471,
2023.
| [40] Ian | Goodfellow, | Jean | Pouget-Abadie, | Mehdi | Mirza, | Bing Xu, |              |      |         |            |       |             |          |
| -------- | ----------- | ---- | -------------- | ----- | ------ | -------- | ------------ | ---- | ------- | ---------- | ----- | ----------- | -------- |
|          |             |      |                |       |        |          | [58] Jeongho | Kim, | Shahroz | Tariq, and | Simon | S Woo. Ptd: | Privacy- |
DavidWarde-Farley,SherjilOzair,AaronCourville,andYoshua
preservinghumanfaceprocessingframeworkusingtensordecom-
| Bengio. | Generativeadversarialnetworks. |     |     | Communicationsofthe |     |     |           |     |             |        |                 |     |           |
| ------- | ------------------------------ | --- | --- | ------------------- | --- | --- | --------- | --- | ----------- | ------ | --------------- | --- | --------- |
|         |                                |     |     |                     |     |     | position. | In  | Proceedings | of the | 37th ACM/SIGAPP |     | Symposium |
ACM,2020.
onAppliedComputing,pages1296–1303,2022.
| [41] Zhihao | Gu, | Yang Chen, | Taiping | Yao, Shouhong | Ding, | Jilin Li, |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ----------- | --- | ---------- | ------- | ------------- | ----- | --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Feiyue Huang, and Lizhuang Ma. Spatiotemporal inconsistency [59] Minha Kim, Shahroz Tariq, and Simon S Woo. Cored: Gener-
|                                    |     |     |     |                        |     |     | alizing       | fake | media detection                            | with | continual | representation | using |
| ---------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | ---------------------- | --- | --- | ------------- | ---- | ------------------------------------------ | ---- | --------- | -------------- | ----- |
| learningfordeepfakevideodetection. |     |     |     | InProceedingsofthe29th |     |     |               |      |                                            |      |           |                |       |
|                                    |     |     |     |                        |     |     | distillation. |      | InProceedingsofthe29thACMInternationalCon- |      |           |                |       |
ACMinternationalconferenceonmultimedia,2021.
ferenceonMultimedia,pages337–346,2021.
| [42] Zhihao | Gu, | Yang Chen, | Taiping | Yao, Shouhong | Ding, | Jilin Li, |                                          |     |     |     |     |                 |     |
| ----------- | --- | ---------- | ------- | ------------- | ----- | --------- | ---------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------------- | --- |
|             |     |            |         |               |       |           | [60] MinhaKim,ShahrozTariq,andSimonSWoo. |     |     |     |     | Fretal:General- |     |
andLizhuangMa.Delvingintothelocal:Dynamicinconsistency
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | izing | deepfake | detection | using knowledge |     | distillation | and repre- |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----- | -------- | --------- | --------------- | --- | ------------ | ---------- |
learningfordeepfakevideodetection.InProceedingsoftheAAAI sentationlearning. InProceedingsoftheIEEE/CVFConference
ConferenceonArtificialIntelligence,2022.
onComputerVisionandPatternRecognition,pages1001–1012,
| [43] Zhihao             | Gu, | Taiping                                         | Yao, Yang                      | Chen, Shouhong |     | Ding, and | 2021.            |     |                                  |     |     |     |            |
| ----------------------- | --- | ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | -------------- | --- | --------- | ---------------- | --- | -------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | ---------- |
| LizhuangMa.             |     | Hierarchicalcontrastiveinconsistencylearningfor |                                |                |     |           |                  |     |                                  |     |     |     |            |
|                         |     |                                                 |                                |                |     |           | [61] DavisEKing. |     | Dlib-ml:Amachinelearningtoolkit. |     |     |     | TheJournal |
| deepfakevideodetection. |     |                                                 | InEuropeanConferenceonComputer |                |     |           |                  |     |                                  |     |     |     |            |
ofMachineLearningResearch,2009.
Vision.Springer,2022.
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | [62] DiederikPKingmaandMaxWelling. |     |     |     | Auto-encodingvariational |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | ------------------------ | --- | --- |
[44] Jiazhi Guan, Hang Zhou, Zhibin Hong, Errui Ding, Jingdong bayes. arXivpreprintarXiv:1312.6114,2013.
Wang,ChengbinQuan,andYoujianZhao.Delvingintosequential
patchesfordeepfakedetection. AdvancesinNeuralInformation [63] BinhLe,ShahrozTariq,AlsharifAbuadbba,KristenMoore,and
ProcessingSystems,2022. SimonWoo. Whydofacialdeepfakedetectorsfail? InProceed-
ingsofthe2ndWorkshoponSecurityImplicationsofDeepfakes
[45] AlexandrosHaliassos,KonstantinosVougioukas,StavrosPetridis, and Cheapfakes, WDC ’23, page 24–28, New York, NY, USA,
and Maja Pantic. Lips don’t lie: A generalisable and robust ap- 2023.AssociationforComputingMachinery.
proachtofaceforgerydetection.InProceedingsoftheIEEE/CVF
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | [64] BinhM.LeandSimonWoo.Quality-agnosticdeepfakedetection |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
conferenceoncomputervisionandpatternrecognition,2021.
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | with | intra-model | collaborative | learning. |     | In Proceedings | of the |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ----------- | ------------- | --------- | --- | -------------- | ------ |
IEEE/CVFInternationalConferenceonComputerVision(ICCV),
| [46] KaimingHe,XiangyuZhang,ShaoqingRen,andJianSun. |            |             |              |     |             | Deep         |           |      |           |        |                |           |     |
| --------------------------------------------------- | ---------- | ----------- | ------------ | --- | ----------- | ------------ | --------- | ---- | --------- | ------ | -------------- | --------- | --- |
| residual                                            | learning   | for image   | recognition. | In  | Proceedings | of the       | 2023.     |      |           |        |                |           |     |
| IEEE                                                | conference | on computer | vision       | and | pattern     | recognition, |           |      |           |        |                |           |     |
|                                                     |            |             |              |     |             |              | [65] Binh | M Le | and Simon | S Woo. | Add: Frequency | attention | and |
2016.
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | multi-view |     | based knowledge | distillation |     | to detect | low-quality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------- | --- | --------------- | ------------ | --- | --------- | ----------- |
[47] Geoffrey Hinton, Oriol Vinyals, and Jeff Dean. Distilling the compresseddeepfakeimages. InProceedingsoftheThirty-Sixth
AAAIConferenceonArtificialIntelligence,2022.
knowledgeinaneuralnetwork.arXivpreprintarXiv:1503.02531,
2015. [66] Yann LeCun. Phd thesis: Modeles connexionnistes de
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | l’apprentissage(connectionistlearningmodels). |     |     |     |     | 1987. |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----- | --- |
[48] JuanHu,XinLiao,JinwenLiang,WenboZhou,andZhengQin.
Finfer:Frameinference-baseddeepfakedetectionforhigh-visual-
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | [67] Sangyup | Lee, | Shahroz | Tariq, Junyaup | Kim, | and Simon | S Woo. |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ | ---- | ------- | -------------- | ---- | --------- | ------ |
qualityvideos.InProceedingsoftheAAAIconferenceonartificial
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | Tar: | Generalized | forensic | framework | to  | detect deepfakes | using |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ----------- | -------- | --------- | --- | ---------------- | ----- |
intelligence,2022. weakly supervised learning. In IFIP International Conference
onICTSystemsSecurityandPrivacyProtection,pages351–366.
| [49] Ziheng | Hu, | Hongtao Xie, | Yuxin | Wang, Jiahong | Li, | Zhongyuan |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ----------- | --- | ------------ | ----- | ------------- | --- | --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Springer,2021.
Wang,andYongdongZhang.Dynamicinconsistency-awaredeep-
InIJCAI,pages736–742,2021.
fakevideodetection. [68] SangyupLee,ShahrozTariq,YoujinShin,andSimonSWoo.De-
tectinghandcraftedfacialimagemanipulationsandgan-generated
[50] BaojinHuang,ZhongyuanWang,JifanYang,JiaxinAi,QinZou, facialimagesusingshallow-fakefacenet.AppliedSoftComputing,
| Qian | Wang, | and Dengpan | Ye. Implicit | identity | driven | deepfake |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---- | ----- | ----------- | ------------ | -------- | ------ | -------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
105:107256,2021.
| faceswappingdetection. |     |     | InProceedingsoftheIEEE/CVFCon- |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---------------------- | --- | --- | ------------------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
ferenceonComputerVisionandPatternRecognition,2023. [69] Changjiang Li, Li Wang, Shouling Ji, Xuhong Zhang, Zhaohan
|             |     |                  |           |     |          |           | Xi,ShanqingGuo,andTingWang.                              |     |     |     | Seeingisliving?rethinking |     |     |
| ----------- | --- | ---------------- | --------- | --- | -------- | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | ------------------------- | --- | --- |
| [51] Intel. |     | Intel introduces | real-time |     | deepfake | detector. |                                                          |     |     |     |                           |     |     |
|             |     |                  |           |     |          |           | thesecurityoffaciallivenessverificationinthedeepfakeera. |     |     |     |                           |     | In  |
https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/newsroom/news/ 31stUSENIXSecuritySymposium(USENIXSecurity22),2022.
| intel-introduces-real-time-deepfake-detector.html, |     |     |     |     |     | 2021. |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Accessed:2024-01-01. [70] Jiaming Li, Hongtao Xie, Jiahong Li, Zhongyuan Wang, and
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | YongdongZhang. |     | Frequency-awarediscriminativefeaturelearn- |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | -------------- | --- | ------------------------------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- |
[52] LimingJiang,RenLi,WayneWu,ChenQian,andChenChange
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | ingsupervisedbysingle-centerlossforfaceforgerydetection. |     |     |     |     |     | In  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | -------------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Loy. Deeperforensics-1.0: A large-scale dataset for real-world ProceedingsoftheIEEE/CVFconferenceoncomputervisionand
faceforgerydetection. InProceedingsoftheIEEE/CVFconfer- patternrecognition,2021.
enceoncomputervisionandpatternrecognition,2020.
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | [71] Lingzhi | Li, | Jianmin | Bao, Hao | Yang, Dong | Chen, | and Fang |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- | ------- | -------- | ---------- | ----- | -------- |
[53] FelixJuefei-Xu,RunWang,YihaoHuang,QingGuo,LeiMa,and Wen. Faceshifter:Towardshighfidelityandocclusionawareface
| YangLiu.    | Counteringmaliciousdeepfakes:Survey,battleground, |                                            |     |     |     |     |              |                                     |         |           |            |            |       |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ | ----------------------------------- | ------- | --------- | ---------- | ---------- | ----- |
|             |                                                   |                                            |     |     |     |     | swapping.    | arXivpreprintarXiv:1912.13457,2019. |         |           |            |            |       |
| andhorizon. |                                                   | Internationaljournalofcomputervision,2022. |     |     |     |     |              |                                     |         |           |            |            |       |
|             |                                                   |                                            |     |     |     |     | [72] Lingzhi | Li,                                 | Jianmin | Bao, Ting | Zhang, Hao | Yang, Dong | Chen, |
[54] Tero Karras, Timo Aila, Samuli Laine, and Jaakko Lehtinen. Fang Wen, and Baining Guo. Face x-ray for more general face
Progressive growing of gans for improved quality, stability, and forgery detection. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference
variation. arXivpreprintarXiv:1710.10196,2017. oncomputervisionandpatternrecognition,2020.

[73] Xiaodan Li, Yining Lang, Yuefeng Chen, Xiaofeng Mao, Yuan [92] Yuyang Qian, Guojun Yin, Lu Sheng, Zixuan Chen, and Jing
He,ShuhuiWang,HuiXue,andQuanLu.Sharpmultipleinstance Shao. Thinking in frequency: Face forgery detection by mining
learningfordeepfakevideodetection. InProceedingsofthe28th frequency-aware clues. In European conference on computer
| ACMinternationalconferenceonmultimedia,2020. |     |     |     |     |     |     | vision.Springer,2020. |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
[74] Yuezun Li, Xin Yang, Pu Sun, Honggang Qi, and Siwei Lyu. [93] Md Shohel Rana, Mohammad Nur Nobi, Beddhu Murali, and
Celeb-df:Alarge-scalechallengingdatasetfordeepfakeforensics. Andrew H Sung. Deepfake detection: A systematic literature
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | review. IEEEaccess,2022. |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
InProceedingsoftheIEEE/CVFconferenceoncomputervision
andpatternrecognition,2020. [94] RefaceApplication. Reface. https://reface.app/,2021. Accessed:
| [75] LicoLico | Application. |     | Licolico. | http://licolico.cn/home/, |     | 2021. | 2023-01-01. |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------- | ------------ | --- | --------- | ------------------------- | --- | ----- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Accessed:2023-01-01. [95] RevelAIBV. Revelai. http://revel.ai/,2021. Accessed:2023-01-
01.
[76] HongguLiu,XiaodanLi,WenboZhou,YuefengChen,YuanHe,
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | [96] Revive Application. |     | Revive. https://play.google.com/store/apps/ |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------------------ | --- | ------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
HuiXue,WeimingZhang,andNenghaiYu.Spatial-phaseshallow
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | details?id=revive.app&hl=en&gl=US/,2021. |     |     |     | Accessed:2023-01- |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------- | --- |
learning:rethinkingfaceforgerydetectioninfrequencydomain.
| InProceedingsoftheIEEE/CVFconferenceoncomputervision |     |     |     |     |     |     | 01. |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
andpatternrecognition,2021.
[97] JonasRicker,SimonDamm,ThorstenHolz,andAsjaFischer.To-
|           |     |                   |     |                              |     |     | wardsthedetectionofdiffusionmodeldeepfakes. |     |     |     |     | arXivpreprint |
| --------- | --- | ----------------- | --- | ---------------------------- | --- | --- | ------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------- |
| [77] Shao | An  | Lu. faceswap-gan. |     | https://github.com/shaoanlu/ |     |     |                                             |     |     |     |     |               |
arXiv:2210.14571,2022.
| faceswap-GAN,2023. |     |     | Accessed:2023-01-01. |     |     |     |                        |         |          |     |        |              |
| ------------------ | --- | --- | -------------------- | --- | --- | --- | ---------------------- | ------- | -------- | --- | ------ | ------------ |
|                    |     |     |                      |     |     |     | [98] Olaf Ronneberger, | Philipp | Fischer, | and | Thomas | Brox. U-net: |
[78] YuchenLuo,YongZhang,JunchiYan,andWeiLiu.Generalizing Convolutional networks for biomedical image segmentation. In
| faceforgerydetectionwithhigh-frequencyfeatures. |     |     |     |     |     | InProceed- |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ----------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
MedicalImageComputingandComputer-AssistedIntervention–
ingsoftheIEEE/CVFconferenceoncomputervisionandpattern
MICCAI2015:18thInternationalConference,Munich,Germany,
recognition,2021.
|           |        |        |              |        |            |         | October 5-9,   | 2015, | Proceedings, | Part | III 18, | pages 234–241. |
| --------- | ------ | ------ | ------------ | ------ | ---------- | ------- | -------------- | ----- | ------------ | ---- | ------- | -------------- |
| [79] Asad | Malik, | Minoru | Kuribayashi, | Sani M | Abdullahi, | and Ah- | Springer,2015. |       |              |      |         |                |
mad Neyaz Khan. Deepfake detection for human face images [99] Andreas Rossler, Davide Cozzolino, Luisa Verdoliva, Christian
| andvideos:Asurvey. |     |     | IeeeAccess,2022. |     |     |     |               |        |              |           |                  |     |
| ------------------ | --- | --- | ---------------- | --- | --- | --- | ------------- | ------ | ------------ | --------- | ---------------- | --- |
|                    |     |     |                  |     |     |     | Riess, Justus | Thies, | and Matthias | Niessner. | Faceforensics++: |     |
[80] Iacopo Masi, Aditya Killekar, Royston Marian Mascarenhas, Learning to detect manipulated facial images. In Proceedings
|        |        |           |     |                   |     |            | of the IEEE/CVF | International |     | Conference | on Computer | Vision |
| ------ | ------ | --------- | --- | ----------------- | --- | ---------- | --------------- | ------------- | --- | ---------- | ----------- | ------ |
| Shenoy | Pratik | Gurudatt, | and | Wael AbdAlmageed. |     | Two-branch |                 |               |     |            |             |        |
(ICCV),2019.
| recurrentnetworkforisolatingdeepfakesinvideos. |     |     |     |     |     | InComputer |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Vision–ECCV 2020: 16th European Conference, Glasgow, UK, [100] SaraSabour,NicholasFrosst,andGeoffreyEHinton. Dynamic
August23–28,2020,Proceedings,PartVII16.Springer,2020.
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | routing between | capsules. | Advances | in  | neural information | pro- |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------------- | --------- | -------- | --- | ------------------ | ---- |
cessingsystems,2017.
| [81] Momina | Masood, | Mariam | Nawaz, | Khalid | Mahmood | Malik, Ali |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ----------- | ------- | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Javed, Aun Irtaza, and Hafiz Malik. Deepfakes generation and [101] Mike Schuster and Kuldip K Paliwal. Bidirectional recurrent
detection:State-of-the-art,openchallenges,countermeasures,and neuralnetworks. IEEEtransactionsonSignalProcessing,1997.
wayforward. Appliedintelligence,2023. [102] JiaWenSeow,MeiKuanLim,RaphaelCWPhan,andJosephK
[82] Media Education Lab. Belgium climate politics - trump deep Liu. Acomprehensiveoverviewofdeepfake:Generation,detec-
fake. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8o0iOm-2sLw, 2021. tion,datasets,andopportunities. Neurocomputing,513:351–371,
| Accessed:2023-05-01. |        |           |                                 |              |     |              | 2022.                |         |           |             |           |              |
| -------------------- | ------ | --------- | ------------------------------- | ------------ | --- | ------------ | -------------------- | ------- | --------- | ----------- | --------- | ------------ |
|                      |        |           |                                 |              |     |              | [103] Kaede Shiohara | and     | Toshihiko | Yamasaki.   | Detecting | deepfakes    |
| [83] Yisroel         | Mirsky | and Wenke | Lee.                            | The creation | and | detection of |                      |         |           |             |           |              |
|                      |        |           |                                 |              |     |              | with self-blended    | images. | In        | Proceedings | of        | the IEEE/CVF |
| deepfakes:Asurvey.   |        |           | ACMComputingSurveys(CSUR),2021. |              |     |              |                      |         |           |             |           |              |
ConferenceonComputerVisionandPatternRecognition,2022.
[84] MIT’sCenterforAdvancedVirtuality. Ineventofmoondisaster. [104] AliaksandrSiarohin,Ste´phaneLathuilie`re,SergeyTulyakov,Elisa
| https://moondisaster.org/,2020. |     |     |     | Accessed:2023-05-01. |     |     |            |            |       |              |       |           |
| ------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | -------------------- | --- | --- | ---------- | ---------- | ----- | ------------ | ----- | --------- |
|                                 |     |     |     |                      |     |     | Ricci, and | Nicu Sebe. | First | order motion | model | for image |
[85] Amal Naitali, Mohammed Ridouani, Fatima Salahdine, and animation. In Conference on Neural Information Processing
Systems,2019.
| Naima | Kaabouch. |     | Deepfake | attacks: | Generation, | detection, |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ----- | --------- | --- | -------- | -------- | ----------- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
datasets,challenges,andresearchdirections. Computers,2023. [105] Karen Simonyan and Andrew Zisserman. Very deep convolu-
|          |           |                   |     |         |          |          | tionalnetworksforlarge-scaleimagerecognition. |     |     |     |     | arXivpreprint |
| -------- | --------- | ----------------- | --- | ------- | -------- | -------- | --------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------- |
| [86] Huy | H Nguyen, | JunichiYamagishi, |     | andIsao | Echizen. | Capsule- |                                               |     |     |     |     |               |
forensics: Using capsule networks to detect forged images and arXiv:1409.1556,2014.
videos. InICASSP2019-2019IEEEInternationalConferenceon [106] Luchuan Song, Zheng Fang, Xiaodan Li, Xiaoyi Dong, Zhen-
Acoustics,SpeechandSignalProcessing(ICASSP).IEEE,2019. chao Jin, Yuefeng Chen, and Siwei Lyu. Adaptive face forgery
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | detectionincrossdomain. |     | InEuropeanConferenceonComputer |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------- | --- | ------------------------------ | --- | --- | --- |
[87] Thanh Thi Nguyen, Quoc Viet Hung Nguyen, Dung Tien Vision.Springer,2022.
| Nguyen, | Duc | Thanh | Nguyen, | Thien Huynh-The, |     | Saeid Naha- |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | --- | ----- | ------- | ---------------- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
vandi, Thanh Tam Nguyen, Quoc-Viet Pham, and Cuong M [107] Joel Stehouwer, Hao Dang, Feng Liu, Xiaoming Liu, and Anil
Nguyen. Deep learning for deepfakes creation and detection: A Jain. Onthedetectionofdigitalfacemanipulation. arXiv,2019.
survey. ComputerVisionandImageUnderstanding,2022. [108] KeSun,HongLiu,QixiangYe,YueGao,JianzhuangLiu,Ling
|               |     |          |         |             |              |        | Shao, and           | Rongrong | Ji. Domain                         | general | face forgery | detection |
| ------------- | --- | -------- | ------- | ----------- | ------------ | ------ | ------------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------- | ------- | ------------ | --------- |
| [88] Yunsheng |     | Ni, Depu | Meng,   | Changqian   | Yu, Chengbin | Quan,  |                     |          |                                    |         |              |           |
|               |     |          |         |             |              |        | bylearningtoweight. |          | InProceedingsoftheAAAIconferenceon |         |              |           |
| Dongchun      |     | Ren, and | Youjian | Zhao. Core: | Consistent   | repre- |                     |          |                                    |         |              |           |
sentation learning for face forgery detection. In Proceedings artificialintelligence,2021.
of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern [109] Ke Sun, Taiping Yao, Shen Chen, Shouhong Ding, Jilin Li, and
Recognition,2022. Rongrong Ji. Dual contrastive learning for general face forgery
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | detection. | In Proceedings | of the | AAAI | Conference | on Artificial |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------- | -------------- | ------ | ---- | ---------- | ------------- |
[89] Yuval Nirkin, Yosi Keller, and Tal Hassner. FSGAN: Subject Intelligence,2022.
| agnostic | face | swapping | and reenactment. |     | In Proceedings | of the |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------- | ---- | -------- | ---------------- | --- | -------------- | ------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
IEEEInternationalConferenceonComputerVision,2019. [110] Zekun Sun, Yujie Han, Zeyu Hua, Na Ruan, and Weijia Jia.
|              |     |                 |     |               |           |       | Improving    | the efficiency | and       | robustness | of deepfakes   | detec- |
| ------------ | --- | --------------- | --- | ------------- | --------- | ----- | ------------ | -------------- | --------- | ---------- | -------------- | ------ |
| [90] Jiameng | Pu, | Neal Mangaokar, |     | Lauren Kelly, | Parantapa | Bhat- |              |                |           |            |                |        |
|              |     |                 |     |               |           |       | tion through | precise        | geometric | features.  | In Proceedings | of the |
tacharya,KavyaSundaram,MobinJaved,BolunWang,andBimal IEEE/CVFConferenceonComputerVisionandPatternRecogni-
| Viswanath. |     | Deepfakevideosinthewild:Analysisanddetection. |     |     |     |     | tion,2021. |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---------- | --- | --------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
InProceedingsoftheWebConference2021,2021.
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | [111] Chuangchuang | Tan, Yao | Zhao, | Shikui Wei, | Guanghua | Gu, and |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------------ | -------- | ----- | ----------- | -------- | ------- |
[91] Hua Qi, Qing Guo, Felix Juefei-Xu, Xiaofei Xie, Lei Ma, Wei Yunchao Wei. Learning on gradients: Generalized artifacts rep-
Feng,YangLiu,andJianjunZhao. Deeprhythm:Exposingdeep- resentation for gan-generated images detection. In Proceedings
fakes with attentional visual heartbeat rhythms. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
| ofthe28thACMinternationalconferenceonmultimedia,2020. |     |     |     |     |     |     | Recognition,2023. |     |     |     |     |     |
| ----------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

[112] Shahroz Tariq, Alsharif Abuadbba, and Kristen Moore. Deep- [130] KaipengZhang,ZhanpengZhang,ZhifengLi,andYuQiao.Joint
fake in the metaverse: Security implications for virtual gaming, face detection and alignment using multitask cascaded convolu-
meetings, and offices. In Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop tionalnetworks. IEEESignalProcessingLetters,2016.
| on   | Security    | Implications | of    | Deepfakes | and   | Cheapfakes, | WDC |                                                          |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---- | ----------- | ------------ | ----- | --------- | ----- | ----------- | --- | -------------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|      |             |              |       |           |       |             |     | [131] HanqingZhao,WenboZhou,DongdongChen,TianyiWei,Weim- |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ’23, | page 16–19, | New          | York, | NY, USA,  | 2023. | Association | for |                                                          |     |     |     |     |     |     |
ingZhang,andNenghaiYu.Multi-attentionaldeepfakedetection.
ComputingMachinery.
InProceedingsoftheIEEE/CVFconferenceoncomputervision
[113] Shahroz Tariq, Sangyup Lee, Hoyoung Kim, Youjin Shin, and andpatternrecognition,2021.
| SimonSWoo.           |     | Detectingbothmachineandhumancreatedfake |                                    |     |               |       |        |                                                  |     |     |     |     |           |         |
| -------------------- | --- | --------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- | --- | ------------- | ----- | ------ | ------------------------------------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------- | ------- |
|                      |     |                                         |                                    |     |               |       |        | [132] LileiZheng,YingZhang,andVrizlynnLLThing.   |     |     |     |     | Asurveyon |         |
| faceimagesinthewild. |     |                                         | InProceedingsofthe2ndInternational |     |               |       |        |                                                  |     |     |     |     |           |         |
|                      |     |                                         |                                    |     |               |       |        | imagetamperinganditsdetectioninreal-worldphotos. |     |     |     |     |           | Journal |
| Workshop             | on  | Multimedia                              | Privacy                            |     | and Security, | pages | 81–87. |                                                  |     |     |     |     |           |         |
ofVisualCommunicationandImageRepresentation,2019.
ACM,2018.
[114] Shahroz Tariq, Sangyup Lee, Hoyoung Kim, Youjin Shin, and [133] YinglinZheng,JianminBao,DongChen,MingZeng,andFang
|        |         |      |              |        |                |             |             | Wen.              | Exploringtemporalcoherenceformoregeneralvideoface |                                         |     |     |     |     |
| ------ | ------- | ---- | ------------ | ------ | -------------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Simon  | S Woo.  | Gan  | is a         | friend | or foe?:       | a framework | to          |                   |                                                   |                                         |     |     |     |     |
|        |         |      |              |        |                |             |             | forgerydetection. |                                                   | InProceedingsoftheIEEE/CVFinternational |     |     |     |     |
| detect | various | fake | face images. |        | In Proceedings |             | of the 34th |                   |                                                   |                                         |     |     |     |     |
conferenceoncomputervision,2021.
| ACM/SIGAPP |     | Symposium | on  | Applied | Computing, | pages | 1296– |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---------- | --- | --------- | --- | ------- | ---------- | ----- | ----- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
1303.ACM,2019. [134] Xiangyu Zhu, Zhen Lei, Xiaoming Liu, Hailin Shi, and Stan Z
[115] Shahroz Tariq, Sangyup Lee, and Simon Woo. One detector Li. Face alignment across large poses: A 3d solution. In
|         |      |              |     |         |          |        |           | Proceedings |     | of the IEEE | conference | on  | computer vision | and |
| ------- | ---- | ------------ | --- | ------- | -------- | ------ | --------- | ----------- | --- | ----------- | ---------- | --- | --------------- | --- |
| to rule | them | all: Towards | a   | general | deepfake | attack | detection |             |     |             |            |     |                 |     |
patternrecognition,2016.
| framework.                                  |     | InProceedingsofthewebconference2021,2021. |     |     |     |                |     |               |      |           |         |      |               |        |
| ------------------------------------------- | --- | ----------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | -------------- | --- | ------------- | ---- | --------- | ------- | ---- | ------------- | ------ |
|                                             |     |                                           |     |     |     |                |     | [135] Xiangyu | Zhu, | Hao Wang, | Hongyan | Fei, | Zhen Lei, and | Stan Z |
| [116] ShahrozTariq,SangyupLee,andSimonSWoo. |     |                                           |     |     |     | Aconvolutional |     |               |      |           |         |      |               |        |
lstmbasedresidualnetworkfordeepfakevideodetection. arXiv Li. Faceforgerydetectionby3ddecomposition. InProceedings
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | of the | IEEE/CVF | conference | on  | computer | vision and | pattern |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------ | -------- | ---------- | --- | -------- | ---------- | ------- |
preprintarXiv:2009.07480,2020.
recognition,2021.
| [117] JustusThies,MichaelZollho¨fer,andMatthiasNießner. |            |       |           |       |        |           | Deferred |                                                           |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- | ----- | --------- | ----- | ------ | --------- | -------- | --------------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|                                                         |            |       |           |       |        |           |          | [136] WanyiZhuang,QiChu,ZhentaoTan,QiankunLiu,HaojieYuan, |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| neural                                                  | rendering: | Image | synthesis | using | neural | textures. | ACM      |                                                           |     |     |     |     |     |     |
TransactionsonGraphics(TOG),2019. Changtao Miao, Zixiang Luo, and Nenghai Yu. Uia-vit: Unsu-
pervisedinconsistency-awaremethodbasedonvisiontransformer
[118] Justus Thies, Michael Zollhofer, Marc Stamminger, Christian forfaceforgerydetection. InEuropeanConferenceonComputer
| Theobalt,andMatthiasNießner.   |     |     |     | Face2face:Real-timefacecap- |                        |     |     | Vision.Springer,2022. |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --------------------------- | ---------------------- | --- | --- | --------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| tureandreenactmentofrgbvideos. |     |     |     |                             | InProceedingsoftheIEEE |     |     |                       |     |     |     |     |     |     |
conferenceoncomputervisionandpatternrecognition,2016. [137] Bojia Zi, Minghao Chang, Jingjing Chen, Xingjun Ma, and Yu-
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | GangJiang. | Wilddeepfake:Achallengingreal-worlddatasetfor |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------- | --------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
[119] RubenTolosana,RubenVera-Rodriguez,JulianFierrez,Aythami deepfakedetection.InProceedingsofthe28thACMinternational
Morales, and Javier Ortega-Garcia. Deepfakes and beyond: A conferenceonmultimedia,2020.
| survey | of face | manipulation |     | and fake | detection. |     | Information |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------ | ------- | ------------ | --- | -------- | ---------- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Fusion,2020.
| [120] Luisa | Verdoliva. | Media | forensics | and | deepfakes: | an  | overview. |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ----------- | ---------- | ----- | --------- | --- | ---------- | --- | --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
IEEEJournalofSelectedTopicsinSignalProcessing,2020.
| [121] Chengrui | Wang | and | Weihong | Deng. | Representative |     | forgery |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------------- | ---- | --- | ------- | ----- | -------------- | --- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
InProceedingsoftheIEEE/CVF
miningforfakefacedetection.
conferenceoncomputervisionandpatternrecognition,2021.
[122] TianyiWangandKamPuiChow.Noisebaseddeepfakedetection
| via | multi-head | relative-interaction. |     |     | In Proceedings | of  | the AAAI |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | ---------- | --------------------- | --- | --- | -------------- | --- | -------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
ConferenceonArtificialIntelligence,2023.
[123] Ting-ChunWang,ArunMallya,andMing-YuLiu.One-shotfree-
| view | neural | talking-head | synthesis |     | for video | conferencing. | In  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---- | ------ | ------------ | --------- | --- | --------- | ------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
ProceedingsoftheIEEE/CVFconferenceoncomputervisionand
patternrecognition,2021.
[124] YuanWang,KunYu,ChenChen,XiyuanHu,andSilongPeng.
| Dynamic                                | graph | learning | with | content-guided |                    | spatial-frequency |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------------------------------------- | ----- | -------- | ---- | -------------- | ------------------ | ----------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| relationreasoningfordeepfakedetection. |       |          |      |                | InProceedingsofthe |                   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
IEEE/CVFConferenceonComputerVisionandPatternRecogni-
tion,2023.
| [125] Zhendong | Wang,      | Jianmin | Bao,        | Wengang | Zhou,        | Weilun  | Wang,      |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------------- | ---------- | ------- | ----------- | ------- | ------------ | ------- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| and            | Houqiang   | Li.     | Altfreezing | for     | more         | general | video face |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| forgery        | detection. | In      | Proceedings | of      | the IEEE/CVF |         | Conference |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
onComputerVisionandPatternRecognition,2023.
| [126] Ying | Xu, Kiran      | Raja,       | Luisa  | Verdoliva,        | and    | Marius     | Pedersen. |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---------- | -------------- | ----------- | ------ | ----------------- | ------ | ---------- | --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Learning   | pairwise       | interaction |        | for generalizable |        | deepfake   | detec-    |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| tion.      | In Proceedings |             | of the | IEEE/CVF          | Winter | Conference | on        |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
ApplicationsofComputerVision,2023.
| [127] Zhiyuan | Yan,       | Yong           | Zhang,            | Xinhang         | Yuan,      | Siwei     | Lyu, and  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------- | ---------- | -------------- | ----------------- | --------------- | ---------- | --------- | --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Baoyuan       | Wu.        | Deepfakebench: |                   | A comprehensive |            | benchmark | of        |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| deepfake      | detection. |                | In Thirty-seventh |                 | Conference |           | on Neural |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
InformationProcessingSystemsDatasetsandBenchmarksTrack,
2023.
| [128] Li Yuezun, |     | Yang Xin, | Sun | Pu, Qi | Honggang, | and | Lyu Siwei. |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---------------- | --- | --------- | --- | ------ | --------- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Celeb-df:Alarge-scalechallengingdatasetfordeepfakeforensics.
InIEEEConferenceonComputerVisionandPattenRecognition
(CVPR),2020.
[129] DaichiZhang,ChenyuLi,FanzhaoLin,DanZeng,andShiming
| Ge. | Detectingdeepfakevideoswithtemporaldropout3dcnn. |     |     |     |     |     | In  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | ------------------------------------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
IJCAI,2021.

Appendix A: Further Details on Detectors 1 to high precision but potentially at the expense of recall
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | when the | deepfakes | lacking | these | features | are | missed. |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | -------- | --------- | ------- | ----- | -------- | --- | ------- |
Appendix B: Details of Detectors’ Performance 1 Forwhatusecaseswouldsometechniquesbefavorable
|          |     |             |         |     |      |     |     | over others?          | As     | discussed | in         | items       | (2) and | (3) of Sec. |
| -------- | --- | ----------- | ------- | --- | ---- | --- | --- | --------------------- | ------ | --------- | ---------- | ----------- | ------- | ----------- |
| Appendix | C:  | Influential | Factors |     | FAQs |     | 1   |                       |        |           |            |             |         |             |
|          |     |             |         |     |      |     |     | 5.1.1, identity-based |        | methods   |            | such as     | ICT     | (CF #5) can |
|          |     |             |         |     |      |     |     | be a good             | choice | when      | the target | demographic |         | at model    |
Appendix A. deploymenttimealignswiththedemographicthedetector
Further Details on Detectors wastrainedon(eg.trainedoncelebrityfacesanddeployed
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | to help safeguard |     | against | deepfake | attacks | on  | celebrities). |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------- | --- | ------- | -------- | ------- | --- | ------------- |
To structurally overview the overall published deep- On the other hand, if your training dataset is comprised
fakedetectors,weintroduceanewcategorizationmethod- of a demographic different to the target demographic at
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | model deployment |     | time, | identity | exclusion |     | approaches |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------------- | --- | ----- | -------- | --------- | --- | ---------- |
ologyinTable6.Alloftheappropriatedeepfakedetection
methods provide some mutual series of processes and like that used by the CADDM (CF #4) model could be
components to build their deep learning network. Based a good choice. As discussed in remark (2) of Sec. 5.2,
on this knowledge, a deepfake detector could be easily for security-critical applications where high recall in a
|           |            |              |                 |             |     |           |           | detector           | is paramount | (in    | addition | to  | high F1 | and AUC),   |
| --------- | ---------- | ------------ | --------------- | ----------- | --- | --------- | --------- | ------------------ | ------------ | ------ | -------- | --- | ------- | ----------- |
| broken    | down       | into several | key             | components: |     | Deepfakes | for       |                    |              |        |          |     |         |             |
|           |            |              |                 |             |     |           |           | the spatiotemporal |              | models | FTCN     | (CF | #7),    | AltFreezing |
| Training, | Artifacts, | Data         | Pre-processing, |             |     | Model     | Training, |                    |              |        |          |     |         |             |
and Model Validation. (CF #6), CLRNet (CF #8), or CCViT (CF #8) are a good
|          |               |     |     |             |     |     |     | choice, as | is the | spatial | artifact | model | MAT(CF | #2). |
| -------- | ------------- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | ---------- | ------ | ------- | -------- | ----- | ------ | ---- |
| Appendix | B.            |     |     |             |     |     |     |            |        |         |          |       |        |      |
| Details  | of Detectors’ |     |     | Performance |     |     |     |            |        |         |          |       |        |      |
Toenhancethereader’scomprehensionofouranalysis
| of 16 selected |     | deepfake | detectors |     | across | White-box | and |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | -------- | --------- | --- | ------ | --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Black-boxdatasets,wehavedelineatedtheirperformances
| in Table        | 7. This     | table | encompasses   |             | six        | standard    | metrics:   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------------- | ----------- | ----- | ------------- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ACC, ACC@best,  |             | AUC,  | F1,           | Precision,  |            | and Recall. | Here,      |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ACC@best        | refers      | to    | the highest   |             | achievable | ACC         | across     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| various         | thresholds, | and   | it            | is at these | optimal    |             | thresholds |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| that we         | calculate   | the   | corresponding |             | F1,        | Precision,  | and        |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| Recall metrics. |             | It is | important     | to          | note that  | at the      | optimal    |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
threshold,somemethodswereunabletoidentifyanyfake
| videos within |     | a dataset, | which | is     | reflected | by a | Recall of |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------- | --- | ---------- | ----- | ------ | --------- | ---- | --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 0 and yields  |     | undefined  | (NaN) | values | for       | both | Precision |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
and F1 scores.
| Appendix    | C.  |         |      |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ----------- | --- | ------- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Influential |     | Factors | FAQs |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
WhatarethetradeoffsbetweenSpatialapproaches
| and Frequency |               | approaches?   |         | As                           | discussed          | in         | Sec. 3.4.3, |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------- | ---------------------------- | ------------------ | ---------- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| frequency     | artifacts     | are           | mostly  | utilized                     |                    | to provide | sup-        |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| plementary    | information   |               | to      | support                      | artifacts          | from       | other       |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| detector      | methodologies |               | like    | spatial                      | or spatiotemporal. |            |             |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| Do any        | detector      | methodologies |         |                              | favor              | precision  | over        |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| recall?       | Why might     |               | that be | the case?Interestingly,anal- |                    |            |             |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
ysisofourwhite-boxexperimentsinTable7inAppendix
| B indicate | that       | only      | the spatiotemporal |             |        | artifact      | models    |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---------- | ---------- | --------- | ------------------ | ----------- | ------ | ------------- | --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| showed     | balanced   | precision |                    | and recall, | with   | the           | remaining |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| spatial,   | frequency, | and       | special            | artifact    | models | all           | favoring  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| precision  | over       | recall.   | Only               | one model   | is     | the exception | to        |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
thisrule,andthatisthespacialartifactmodelMAT,which
| was a reasonably |           | good | all-round    |     | performer | on     | the gray, |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---------------- | --------- | ---- | ------------ | --- | --------- | ------ | --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| white and        | black-box |      | experiments. |     |           |        |           |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| Reasons          | for       | this | behavior     | may | be due    | to the | fact that |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
spatiotemporalmodels,byanalyzingbothspatialandtem-
| poral data,   | are          | likely   | to generalize |             | better    | across       | a variety    |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------- | ------------ | -------- | ------------- | ----------- | --------- | ------------ | ------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| of deepfake   | techniques   |          | (which        | is          | supported | by           | our white-   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| box results), | contributing |          | to            | their       | balanced  | performance. |              |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| In contrast,  | models       | focusing |               | on specific |           | types        | of artifacts |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
(spatial,frequency,orspecial)maybeoptimizedtodetect
| deepfakes | that | prominently |     | feature | these | artifacts, | leading |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- | --- | ------- | ----- | ---------- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

Table6.FURTHERDETAILSONDETECTORS.F2F,NT,ANDFOMSTANDSFORFACIALREENACTMENTMETHODSFACE2FACEANDNEURAL
TEXTURES.FS,DF,FSGAN,ANDFASHSTANDFORFACESWAPMETHODSFACESWAP,DEEPFAKE,FACESWAPGAN,ANDFACESHIFTER.
PaperName DeepfakesforTraining Artifacts DataPre-processing ModelTraining ModelValidation
| Cap.Forensics F2F,DF | Spatial | SingleFrame | VGG | F2F,DF |
| -------------------- | ------- | ----------- | --- | ------ |
XceptionNet NT,F2F,FS,DF Spatial dlib,SingleFrame XceptionNet NT,F2F,FS,DF
FaceX-ray NT,F2F,FS,DF Spatial SingleFrame HRNet NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN
FFD NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN Spatial InsightFace,SingleFrame XceptionNet,VGG NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN
RECCE NT,F2F,FS,DF Spatial RetinaFace,SingleFrame XceptionNet NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN
CORE NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN Spatial MTCNN,SingleFrame XceptionNet NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN
IID NT,F2F,FS,DF Spatial RetinaFace,SingleFrame ResNet NT,F2F,FS,DF,FaSh,GAN
MCX-API NT,F2F,FOM,FS,DF Spatial MTCNN,SingleFrame XceptionNet NT,F2F,FOM,FS,DF,FSGAN,GAN
EffB4Att NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN Spatial BlazeFace,SingleFrame EfficientNet,Siamese NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN
LTW NT,F2F,FS,DF Spatial MTCNN,SingleFrame EfficientNet NT,F2F,FS,DF+GAN
MAT NT,F2F,FS,DF Spatial RetinaFace,SingleFrame EfficientNet NT,F2F,FS,DF+GAN
DCL NT,F2F,FS,DF Spatial DSFD,SingleFrame EfficientNet NT,F2F,FS,DF+GAN
dlib,RetinaFace,
| SBIs FS | Spatial |     | EfficientNet | NT,F2F,FS,DF,FSGAN,GAN |
| ------- | ------- | --- | ------------ | ---------------------- |
SingleFace,SingleFrame
MLAC NT,F2F,FS,DF Spatial dlib,SingleFrame XceptionNet,GANlearning NT,F2F,FS,DF
XceptionNet,DualCross
FRDM NT,F2F,FS,DF Spatial dlib,SingleFrame NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN,VAE
ModalAttention
OST NT,F2F,FS,DF Spatial dlib,SingleFrame XceptionNet,MetaTraining NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN,VAE
CADDM NT,F2F,FS,DF,FaSh Spatial MTCNN,SingleFrame ResNet,EfficientNet NT,F2F,FS,DF,FaSh,GAN
ResNet,EfficientNet,
QAD NT,F2F,FS,DF,FaSh Spatial dlib,SingleFrame Collaborativelearning NT,F2F,FS,DF,FaSh,GAN
RetinaFace,Self-blend
ICT FS Spatial onrealimage,SingleFrame VisionTransformer NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN,VAE
UIA-ViT NT,F2F,FS,DF Spatial dlib,SingleFrame VisionTransformer NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN
AUNet NT,F2F, FS,DF Spatial dlib,RetinaFace,SingleFrame VisionTransformer NT,F2F,FS,DF,FSGAN,GAN
ADDNet-3d FS,DF,GAN Spatial,Temporal MTCNN,MultipleFrames Convolutionallayers FS,DF,GAN
DeepRhythm NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN Spatial,Temporal dlib,MTCNN,MultipleFrames ResNet NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN
S-IML-T NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN Spatial,Temporal dlib,MTCNN,MultipleFrames XceptionNet NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN
TD-3DCNN NT,F2F,FS,DF Spatial,Temporal MobileNet,MultipleFrames 3DInception NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN
DIA NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN Spatial,Temporal RetinaFace,4keypoints, ResNet NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN
MultipleFrames
DIL NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN Spatial,Temporal dlib,MTCNN,MultipleFrames ResNet NT,F2F,FS,DF, GAN
FInfer NT,F2F,FS,DF Spatial,Temporal dlib,MultipleFrames Convolutionallayers NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN,VAE
dlib,MTCNN,MultipleFrames,
| HCIL NT,F2F,FS,DF | Spatial,Temporal |     | ResNet | NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN |
| ----------------- | ---------------- | --- | ------ | ---------------- |
MultipleFrames
Temporaldrop,Temporalrepeat,
AltFreezing NT,F2F,FS,DF Spatial,Temporal Self-blendonreal,MultipleFrames 3DResNet NT,F2F,FS,DF,FaSh,VAE
ResNet,Spatial-Temporal
STIL NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN Spatial,Temporal MTCNN,MultipleFrames Inconsistency NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN
LipForensics NT,F2F,FS,DF,FaSh Spatial,Temporal RetinaFace,FaceAlignment, ResNet NT,F2F,FS,DF,FaSh,GAN,VAE
|     |     | CroppingMouths,MultipleFrames | TemporalCNN |     |
| --- | --- | ----------------------------- | ----------- | --- |
FTCN NT,F2F,FS,DF Spatial,Temporal InsightFace,FaceAlignment, 3DResNet, NT,F2F,FS,DF,FaSh, VAE
|     |     | MultipleFrames | TransformerEncoder |     |
| --- | --- | -------------- | ------------------ | --- |
CCViT FS,DF,GAN Spatial MTCNN,SingleFrame EfficientNet,VisionTransformer NT,F2F,FS,DF,FaSh,GAN
CLRNet NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN Spatial,Temporal MTCNN,MultipleFrames 3DResNet NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN
LTTD NT,F2F,FS,DF Spatial,Temporal MTCNN,MultipleFrames VisionTransformer NT,F2F,FS,DF,FaSh,GAN,VAE
F3-Net NT,F2F,FS,DF Frequency F2F(RGBTracking),SingleFrame XceptionNet NT,F2F,FS,DF
RetinaFace,DCTtransform,
| FDFL NT,F2F,FS,DF | Spatial,Frequency |     | XceptionNet | NT,F2F,FS,DF |
| ----------------- | ----------------- | --- | ----------- | ------------ |
SingleFrame
ADD NT,F2F,FS,DF,FaSh Spatial,Frequency dlib,SingleFrame ResNet,KnowledgeDistillation NT,F2F,FS,DF,FaSh
LRL NT,F2F,FS,DF Spatial,Frequency SingleFrame Convolutionallayers NT,F2F,FS,DF+GAN
|                  | Spatial,Temporal, | dlib,          |                 |                  |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | -------------- | --------------- | ---------------- |
| TRN NT,F2F,FS,DF |                   |                | DenseNet,BiLSTM | NT,F2F,FS,DF+GAN |
|                  | Frequency         | MultipleFrames |                 |                  |
SPSL NT,F2F,FS,DF Frequency IDCTTransform,SingleFrame XceptionNet NT,F2F,FS,DF
|                     | Spatial,Temporal, | DCTandIDCTTransform, |          |                      |
| ------------------- | ----------------- | -------------------- | -------- | -------------------- |
| CD-Net NT,F2F,FS,DF |                   |                      | SlowFast | NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN,VAE |
|                     | Frequency         | MultipleFrames       |          |                      |
InformationInteractionlayers,
SFDG NT,F2F,FS,DF Spatial,Frequency dlib,SingleFrame NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN,VAE
GraphCNN,U-Net,EfficientNet
|                      | Spatial,Forgery | SuspiciousForgeriesErasing, |             |                  |
| -------------------- | --------------- | --------------------------- | ----------- | ---------------- |
| RFM NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN |                 |                             | XceptionNet | NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN |
|                      | AttentionMap    | SingleFrame                 |             |                  |
FD2Net NT,F2F,FS,DF Spatial,3D 3DDFA,SingleFrame XceptionNet NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN
SOLA NT,F2F,FS,DF Spatial,Frequency, RetinaFace,ASRM, ResNet NT,F2F,FS,DF,FaSh
|                | NoiseTraces       | SingleFrame         |                    |                  |
| -------------- | ----------------- | ------------------- | ------------------ | ---------------- |
|                | Spatial,Temporal, | S3FD,FaceAlignment, | 3DResNet,VGG,      |                  |
| AVAD RealVideo |                   |                     |                    | FOM,FS,FSGAN,GAN |
|                | VoiceSync         | MultipleFrames      | TransformerEncoder |                  |
LGrad GAN Gradient Pre-trainedStyleGAN,SingleFrame ResNet NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN
LRNet NT,F2F,FS,DF Temporal, dlib,Openface, LRNet NT,F2F,FS,DF,VAE
|     | Landmarks | MultipleFrames |     |     |
| --- | --------- | -------------- | --- | --- |
NoiseDF NT,F2F,FS,DF NoiseTraces RIDNet,SingleFrame Siamese NT,F2F,FS,DF,GAN,VAE

Table7.PERFORMANCEOFSELECTEDDETECTORSIN6PERFORMANCEMETRICSONASTABILIZEDDATASETANDIN-THE-WILDDATASET.
ACC ACC@best AUC F1 Precision Recall ACC ACC@best AUC F1 Precision Recall
Xceptionnet CapsuleForensics
DeepFaceLab 79.01 90.12 94.95 80.85 100.00 67.86 86.42 90.12 91.71 80.85 100.00 67.86
Dfaker 66.67 71.60 66.58 51.06 63.16 42.86 83.95 87.65 86.73 76.60 94.74 64.29
Faceswap 69.14 75.31 74.26 60.00 68.18 53.57 90.12 95.06 98.45 92.86 92.86 92.86
FOM-Animation 65.43 65.43 35.31 INF N/A 0.00 67.90 69.14 46.63 19.35 100.00 10.71
FOM-Faceswap 65.43 65.43 35.65 N/A N/A 0.00 70.37 70.37 55.93 25.00 100.00 14.29
FSGAN 65.43 66.67 63.88 44.90 52.38 39.29 70.37 77.78 73.79 52.63 100.00 35.71
LightWeight 67.90 72.84 73.11 54.17 65.00 46.43 90.12 93.83 98.25 88.00 100.00 78.57
Avg. 68.43(4.88) 72.49(8.69) 63.39(21.51) 58.20(13.79) 69.74(17.93) 35.72(26.08) 79.89(9.95) 83.42(10.90) 78.78(20.72) 62.18(30.20) 98.23(3.07) 52.04(32.07)
In-the-wild 27.06 72.94 39.45 84.35 72.94 100.00 30.27 72.94 49.78 84.26 73.19 99.28
FTCN LRNet
DeepFaceLab 88.89 93.83 97.71 90.91 92.59 89.29 58.02 65.43 54.78 N/A N/A 0.00
Dfaker 88.89 93.83 97.71 91.23 89.66 92.86 65.43 69.14 69.88 63.77 53.66 78.57
Faceswap 91.36 95.06 98.52 92.86 92.86 92.86 64.20 70.37 71.39 50.00 60.00 42.86
FOM-Animation 91.36 97.53 99.66 96.55 93.33 100.00 58.02 65.43 59.10 N/A N/A 0.00
FOM-Faceswap 91.36 96.30 99.19 94.92 90.32 100.00 58.02 65.43 58.89 N/A N/A 0.00
FSGAN 90.12 95.06 97.51 93.10 90.00 96.43 64.20 65.43 63.11 N/A N/A 0.00
LightWeight 91.36 95.06 98.32 92.86 92.86 92.86 64.20 71.60 72.98 69.33 55.32 92.86
Avg. 90.48(1.17) 95.24(1.32) 98.37(0.81) 93.20(1.98) 91.66(1.59) 94.90(4.05) 61.73(3.49) 67.55(2.73) 64.30(7.13) 61.03(9.95) 56.33(3.29) 30.61(40.97)
In-the-wild 41.35 72.89 58.30 84.21 72.96 99.56 39.13 76.95 48.48 86.97 76.95 100.00
MAT CLRNet
DeepFaceLab 55.56 92.59 97.17 89.29 89.29 89.29 74.12 76.47 81.68 82.46 79.66 85.45
Dfaker 55.56 87.65 91.37 82.54 74.29 92.86 74.12 74.71 77.65 81.86 76.38 88.18
Faceswap 55.56 91.36 96.16 85.71 85.71 85.71 78.24 80.59 85.32 85.46 82.91 88.18
FOM-Animation 54.32 85.19 88.54 76.00 86.36 67.86 61.18 64.71 61.85 78.57 64.71 100.00
FOM-Faceswap 54.32 86.42 88.88 79.25 84.00 75.00 64.71 65.88 66.59 75.42 70.63 80.91
FSGAN 54.32 79.01 83.42 72.13 66.67 78.57 71.18 71.18 71.95 78.03 76.99 79.09
LightWeight 55.56 91.36 95.62 83.02 88.00 78.57 77.06 79.41 83.67 84.72 81.51 88.18
Avg. 55.03(0.66) 87.65(4.73) 91.59(5.03) 81.13(5.83) 82.05(8.37) 81.12(8.68) 71.52(6.36) 73.28(6.27) 75.53(8.98) 80.93(3.71) 76.11(6.44) 87.14(6.77)
In-the-wild 71.26 73.73 68.93 84.40 74.46 97.40 58.32 72.87 55.25 N/A N/A 0.00
SBIs ICT
DeepFaceLab 65.43 95.06 98.05 93.10 90.00 96.43 - 71.60 64.15 29.41 83.33 17.86
Dfaker 65.43 85.19 90.30 81.82 71.05 96.43 - 71.60 67.25 33.33 75.00 21.43
Faceswap 65.43 92.59 96.50 87.27 88.89 85.71 - 70.37 67.52 29.41 83.33 17.86
FOM-Animation 43.21 65.43 37.47 N/A N/A 0.00 - 65.43 47.91 N/A N/A 0.00
FOM-Faceswap 54.32 65.43 58.69 N/A N/A 0.00 - 65.43 60.04 N/A N/A 0.00
FSGAN 65.43 83.95 90.03 78.69 72.73 85.71 - 66.67 56.00 6.90 100.00 3.57
LightWeight 65.43 92.59 96.50 85.19 88.46 82.14 - 70.37 66.37 29.41 83.33 17.86
Avg. 60.67(8.74) 82.89(12.60) 81.08(23.56) 85.21(5.49) 82.23(9.47) 63.77(43.91) - 68.78(2.82) 60.33(7.42) 25.69(10.64) 85.00(9.13) 11.23(9.55)
In-the-wild 41.51 73.05 55.27 84.41 73.02 100.00 - 88.30 61.32 N/A N/A 0.00
CADDM MCX-API
DeepFaceLab 71.60 97.53 99.66 96.30 100.00 92.86 77.78 97.53 99.73 96.3 100.00 92.86
Dfaker 71.60 93.83 98.65 90.57 96.00 85.71 77.78 87.65 94.74 82.14 82.14 82.14
Faceswap 71.06 95.06 99.12 93.1 90.00 96.43 77.78 92.59 98.05 88.89 92.31 85.71
FOM-Animation 46.91 65.43 36.66 N/A N/A 0.00 62.96 69.14 62.53 56.14 55.17 57.14
FOM-Faceswap 60.49 71.60 61.32 30.30 100.00 17.86 59.26 67.90 59.03 50.00 54.17 46.43
FSGAN 88.89 91.44 83.02 88.00 78.57 65.43 58.02 65.43 60.38 N/A N/A 0.00
LightWeight 71.60 95.06 99.06 92.86 92.86 92.86 77.78 92.59 97.37 88.89 92.31 85.71
Avg. 66.13(9.40) 86.77(12.87) 83.70(24.92) 81.03(25.25) 94.48(5.06) 66.33(39.98) 70.19(9.58) 81.83(13.76) 81.69(19.77) 77.06(19.21) 79.35(19.94) 64.28(33.06)
In-the-wild 44.36 73.00 61.53 84.38 72.98 100.00 44.62 72.94 52.35 84.35 72.94 100.00
AltFreezing LipForensics
DeepFaceLab 83.95 90.12 95.22 86.21 83.33 89.29 61.21 57.59 88.93 28.09 35.90 23.08
Dfaker 86.42 98.77 99.66 98.18 100.00 96.43 60.12 56.51 91.36 30.77 35.90 26.92
Faceswap 86.42 98.77 99.80 98.18 100.00 96.43 60.12 56.51 89.14 30.77 35.90 26.92
FOM-Animation 85.19 92.59 97.10 89.29 89.29 89.29 60.12 55.79 90.14 32.38 35.90 29.49
FOM-Faceswap 86.42 93.83 97.24 91.80 84.85 100.00 61.21 56.51 89.86 30.77 35.90 26.92
FSGAN 86.42 96.30 99.39 94.34 100.00 89.29 59.04 55.06 94.64 33.87 35.90 32.05
LightWeight 86.42 98.77 99.66 98.18 100.00 96.43 60.12 54.34 91.71 35.24 35.90 34.62
Avg. 85.89(0.97) 95.59(3.48) 98.30(1.79) 93.74(4.83) 93.92(7.79) 93.88(4.48) 60.28(0.75) 56.04(1.08) 90.83(1.98) 31.70(2.36) 35.90(0.00) 28.57(3.83)
In-the-wild 43.46 72.63 60.24 84.12 72.67 99.85 36.25 71.83 58.65 83.48 72.94 97.57
LGrad EffB4Att
DeepFaceLab 45.68 65.43 53.44 65.43 100 50.80 96.30 97.53 99.73 96.30 100.00 92.86
Dfaker 49.38 65.43 51.62 65.82 98.11 50.91 92.59 92.59 97.24 88.89 92.31 85.71
Faceswap 45.68 65.43 50.13 65.82 98.11 50.91 97.53 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00
FOM-Animation 44.44 69.14 51.48 68.42 98.11 51.67 71.60 72.84 72.78 50.00 68.75 39.29
FOM-Faceswap 43.21 65.43 43.26 65.43 100.00 50.80 72.84 77.78 78.37 62.50 75.00 53.57
FSGAN 43.21 66.67 50.94 66.25 100.00 51.04 79.01 86.42 92.39 80.70 79.31 82.14
LightWeight 45.68 66.67 51.15 66.67 98.11 51.16 97.53 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00
Avg. 45.33(2.10) 66.31(1.38) 50.29(3.26) 66.26(1.05) 98.92(1.01) 51.04(0.31) 86.77(11.84) 89.59(10.95) 91.50(11.32) 82.63(19.59) 87.91(13.33) 79.08(23.64)
In-the-wild 48.36 73.00 49.67 72.98 100.00 56.96 44.04 73.05 57.38 84.36 73.14 99.64
CCViT ADD
DeepFaceLab 87.65 96.30 99.33 94.74 93.10 96.43 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00
Dfaker 83.95 90.12 95.01 83.02 88.00 78.57 96.30 98.77 99.80 98.18 100.00 96.43
Faceswap 86.42 95.06 98.65 94.74 93.10 96.43 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00
FOM-Animation 76.54 81.48 77.22 69.23 75.00 64.29 65.43 69.14 46.83 19.35 100.00 10.71
FOM-Faceswap 80.25 85.19 86.59 76.92 83.33 71.43 65.43 70.37 45.15 29.41 83.33 17.86
FSGAN 82.72 83.95 92.79 73.47 85.71 64.29 77.78 77.78 74.87 58.54 92.31 42.86
LightWeight 87.65 95.06 98.99 92.86 92.86 92.86 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00
Avg. 83.59(4.14) 89.59(6.08) 92.65(8.18) 83.57(10.71) 87.30(6.69) 80.61(14.56) 86.42(16.36) 88.01(14.83) 80.95(25.58) 72.21(36.07) 96.52(6.48) 66.84(41.43)
In-the-wild 62.87 72.94 66.10 84.35 72.94 100.00 33.49 73.73 49.76 84.42 74.41 97.54
